Look,  didn't want  be  half-blood. 

If 're reading  because  think  might be one, my advice : close  book right now. 
Believe whatever lie your mom or dad told  about your birth, and try  lead  normal life. 

Being  half-blood  dangerous.  scary. Most of  time,  gets  killed  painful, nasty 
ways. 

If 're  normal kid, reading  because  think  fiction, great. Read .  envy  for 
being able  believe that none of  ever happened. 

But if  recognize yourself  these pages — if  feel something stirring inside — stop reading 
immediately. You might be one of us. And once  know that,  only  matter of time before  
sense  too, and  come for . 

Don't say  didn't warn . 

My name  Percy Jackson. 

 twelve years old. Until  few months ago,  was  boarding student at Yancy Academy,  private 
school for troubled kids  upstate New York. 

Am   troubled kid? 

Yeah. You could say that. 

 could start at any point  my short miserable life  prove , but things really started going bad 
last May, when our sixth-grade class took  field trip  Manhattan — twenty-eight mental-case kids and 
two teachers   yellow school bus, heading   Metropolitan Museum of Art  look at ancient 
Greek and Roman stuff. 

 know —  sounds like torture. Most Yancy field trips were. 

But Mr. Brunner, our Latin teacher, was leading  trip, so  had hopes. 

Mr. Brunner was  middle-aged guy   motorized wheelchair. He had thinning hair and  scruffy 
beard and  frayed tweed jacket, which always smelled like coffee. You wouldn't think he'd be cool, but 
he told stories and jokes and let us play games  class. He also had  awesome collection of Roman 
armor and weapons, so he was  only teacher whose class didn't put   sleep. 

 hoped  trip would be okay. At least,  hoped that for once  wouldn't get  trouble. 
Boy, was  wrong. 

See, bad things happen    field trips. Like at my fifth-grade school, when we went   
Saratoga battlefield,  had  accident with  Revolutionary War cannon.  wasn't aiming for  
school bus, but of course  got expelled anyway. And before that, at my fourth-grade school, when we 
took  behind--scenes tour of  Marine World shark pool,  sort of hit  wrong lever   
catwalk and our class took an unplanned swim. And  time before that . . . Well,  get  idea. 

This trip,  was determined  be good. 



All  way into  city,  put up with Nancy Bobofit,  freckly, redheaded kleptomaniac girl, 
hitting my best friend Grover   back of  head with chunks of peanut butter-and-ketchup 
sandwich. 

Grover was an easy target. He was scrawny. He cried when he got frustrated. He must've been held 
back several grades, because he was  only sixth grader with acne and  start of  wispy beard  his 
chin. On top of all that, he was crippled. He had  note excusing him from PE for  rest of his life 
because he had some kind of muscular disease  his legs. He walked funny, like every step hurt him, 
but don't let that fool . You should've seen him run when  was enchilada day   cafeteria. 

Anyway, Nancy Bobofit was throwing wads of sandwich that stuck  his curly brown hair, and she 
knew  couldn't do anything back  her because  was already  probation. The headmaster had 
threatened  with death by -school suspension if anything bad, embarrassing, or even mildly 
entertaining happened   trip. 

" going  kill her,"  mumbled. 

Grover tried  calm  down. " okay.  like peanut butter." 
He dodged another piece of Nancy's lunch. 

"That's ."  started  get up, but Grover pulled  back  my seat. 

"You're already  probation," he reminded . "You know who'll get blamed if anything 
happens." 

Looking back  ,  wish 'd decked Nancy Bobofit right then and there. In-school suspension 
would've been nothing compared   mess  was about  get myself into. 

Mr. Brunner led  museum tour. 

He rode up front  his wheelchair, guiding us through  big echoey galleries, past marble statues 
and glass cases full of really old black-and-orange pottery. 

It blew my mind that  stuff had survived for two thousand, three thousand years. 

He gathered us around  thirteen-foot-tall stone column with  big sphinx   top, and started 
telling us how  was  grave marker,  stele, for  girl about our age. He told us about  carvings  
 sides.  was trying  listen  what he had  say, because  was kind of interesting, but everybody 
around  was talking, and every time  told them  shut up,  other teacher chaperone, Mrs. Dodds, 
would give   evil eye. 

Mrs. Dodds was  little math teacher from Georgia who always wore  black leather jacket, even 
though she was fifty years old. She looked mean enough  ride  Harley right into your locker. She had 
come  Yancy halfway through  year, when our last math teacher had  nervous breakdown. 

From her first day, Mrs. Dodds loved Nancy Bobofit and figured  was devil spawn. She would 
point her crooked finger at  and say, "Now, honey," real sweet, and  knew  was going  get after- 
school detention for  month. 

One time, after she'd made  erase answers out of old math workbooks until midnight,  told 
Grover  didn't think Mrs. Dodds was human. He looked at , real serious, and said, "You're 
absolutely right." 

Mr. Brunner kept talking about Greek funeral art. 

Finally, Nancy Bobofit snickered something about  naked guy   stele, and  turned around 
and said, "Will  shut up?" 

It came out louder than  meant  . 

The whole group laughed. Mr. Brunner stopped his story. 

"Mr. Jackson," he said, "did  have  comment?" 



My face was totally red.  said, "No, sir." 

Mr. Brunner pointed  one of  pictures   stele. "Perhaps 'll tell us what  picture 
represents?" 

 looked at  carving, and felt  flush of relief, because  actually recognized . "That's Kronos 
eating his kids, right?" 

"Yes," Mr. Brunner said, obviously not satisfied. "And he did  because . . ." 
"Well ..."  racked my brain  remember. "Kronos was  king god, and — " 
"God?" Mr. Brunner asked. 

"Titan,"  corrected myself. "And ... he didn't trust his kids, who were  gods. So, um, Kronos ate 
them, right? But his wife hid baby Zeus, and gave Kronos  rock  eat instead. And later, when Zeus 
grew up, he tricked his dad, Kronos, into barfing up his brothers and sisters — " 

"Eeew!" said one of  girls behind . 

" — and so there was  big fight between  gods and  Titans,"  continued, "and  gods 
won." 

Some snickers from  group. 

Behind , Nancy Bobofit mumbled   friend, "Like we're going  use   real life. Like  
going  say  our job applications, 'Please explain why Kronos ate his kids.'" 

"And why, Mr. Jackson," Brunner said, " paraphrase Miss Bobofit's excellent question, does  
matter  real life?" 

"Busted," Grover muttered. 

"Shut up," Nancy hissed, her face even brighter red than her hair. 

At least Nancy got packed, too. Mr. Brunner was  only one who ever caught her saying anything 
wrong. He had radar ears. 

 thought about his question, and shrugged. " don't know, sir." 

" see." Mr. Brunner looked disappointed. "Well, half credit, Mr. Jackson. Zeus did indeed feed 
Kronos  mixture of mustard and wine, which made him disgorge his other five children, who, of 
course, being immortal gods, had been living and growing up completely undigested   Titan's 
stomach. The gods defeated their father, sliced him  pieces with his own scythe, and scattered his 
remains  Tartarus,  darkest part of  Underworld. On that happy note,  time for lunch. Mrs. 
Dodds, would  lead us back outside?" 

The class drifted off,  girls holding their stomachs,  guys pushing each other around and acting 
like doofuses. 

Grover and  were about  follow when Mr. Brunner said, "Mr. Jackson." 
 knew that was coming. 

 told Grover  keep going. Then  turned toward Mr. Brunner. "Sir?" 

Mr. Brunner had  look that wouldn't let  go — intense brown eyes that could 've been  
thousand years old and had seen everything. 

"You must learn  answer  my question," Mr. Brunner told . 

"About  Titans?" 

"About real life. And how your studies apply  ." 
"Oh." 

"What  learn from ," he said, " vitally important.  expect   treat  as such.  will 
accept only  best from , Percy Jackson." 



 wanted  get angry,  guy pushed  so hard. 

 mean, sure,  was kind of cool  tournament days, when he dressed up   suit of Roman armor 
and shouted: "What ho!" and challenged us, sword-point against chalk,  run   board and name 
every Greek and Roman person who had ever lived, and their mother, and what god  worshipped. 
But Mr. Brunner expected   be as good as everybody else, despite  fact that  have dyslexia and 
attention deficit disorder and  had never made above  C-  my life. No — he didn't expect   be as 
good; he expected   be better. And  just couldn't learn all those names and facts, much less spell 
them correctly. 

 mumbled something about trying harder, while Mr. Brunner took one long sad look at  stele, 
like he'd been at  girl's funeral. 

He told   go outside and eat my lunch. 

The class gathered   front steps of  museum, where we could watch  foot traffic along 
Fifth Avenue. 

Overhead,  huge storm was brewing, with clouds blacker than 'd ever seen over  city.  figured 
maybe  was global warming or something, because  weather all across New York state had been 
weird since Christmas. We'd had massive snow storms, flooding, wildfires from lightning strikes.  
wouldn't have been surprised if  was  hurricane blowing . 

Nobody else seemed  notice. Some of  guys were pelting pigeons with Lunchables crackers. 
Nancy Bobofit was trying  pickpocket something from  lady's purse, and, of course, Mrs. Dodds 
wasn't seeing  thing. 

Grover and  sat   edge of  fountain, away from  others. We thought that maybe if we did 
that, everybody wouldn't know we were from that school —  school for loser freaks who couldn't 
make  elsewhere. 

"Detention?" Grover asked. 

"Nah,"  said. "Not from Brunner.  just wish he'd lay off  sometimes.  mean —  not  
genius." 

Grover didn't say anything for  while. Then, when  thought he was going  give  some deep 
philosophical comment  make  feel better, he said, "Can  have your apple?" 
 didn't have much of an appetite, so  let him take . 

 watched  stream of cabs going down Fifth Avenue, and thought about my mom's apartment, 
only  little ways uptown from where we sat.  hadn't seen her since Christmas.  wanted so bad  jump 
  taxi and head home. She'd hug  and be glad  see , but she'd be disappointed, too. She'd 
send  right back  Yancy, remind  that  had  try harder, even if  was my sixth school  six 
years and  was probably going  be kicked out again.  wouldn't be able  stand that sad look she'd 
give . 

Mr. Brunner parked his wheelchair at  base of  handicapped ramp. He ate celery while he read 
 paperback novel. A red umbrella stuck up from  back of his chair, making  look like  motorized 
cafe table. 

 was about  unwrap my sandwich when Nancy Bobofit appeared  front of  with her ugly 
friends —  guess she'd gotten tired of stealing from  tourists — and dumped her half -eaten lunch  
Graver's lap. 

"Oops." She grinned at  with her crooked teeth. Her freckles were orange, as if somebody had 
spray-painted her face with liquid Cheetos. 

 tried  stay cool. The school counselor had told   million times, "Count  ten, get control of 



your temper." But  was so mad my mind went blank. A wave roared  my ears. 

 don't remember touching her, but  next thing  knew, Nancy was sitting  her butt   
fountain, screaming, "Percy pushed !" 

Mrs. Dodds materialized next  us. 

Some of  kids were whispering: "Did  see — " 

"—the water—" 

" — like  grabbed her — " 

 didn't know what  were talking about. All  knew was that  was  trouble again. 

As soon as Mrs. Dodds was sure poor little Nancy was okay, promising  get her  new shirt at  
museum gift shop, etc., etc., Mrs. Dodds turned  . There was  triumphant fire  her eyes, as if 'd 
done something she'd been waiting for all semester. "Now, honey — " 

" know,"  grumbled. "A month erasing workbooks." 

That wasn't  right thing  say. 

"Come with ," Mrs. Dodds said. 

"Wait!" Grover yelped. "It was .  pushed her." 

 stared at him, stunned.  couldn't believe he was trying  cover for . Mrs. Dodds scared Grover 
 death. 

She glared at him so hard his whiskery chin trembled. 
" don't think so, Mr. Underwood," she said. 
"But—" 

"You — will — stay — here." 

Grover looked at  desperately. 

" okay, man,"  told him. "Thanks for trying." 

"Honey," Mrs. Dodds barked at . "Now. " 

Nancy Bobofit smirked.  gave her my deluxe 'll-kill--later stare. Then  turned  face Mrs. 
Dodds, but she wasn't there. She was standing at  museum entrance, way at  top of  steps, 
gesturing impatiently at   come . 

How'd she get there so fast? 

 have moments like that  lot, when my brain falls asleep or something, and  next thing  know 
've missed something, as if  puzzle piece fell out of  universe and left  staring at  blank place 
behind . The school counselor told   was part of  ADHD, my brain misinterpreting things. 

 wasn't so sure. 

 went after Mrs. Dodds. 

Halfway up  steps,  glanced back at Grover. He was looking pale, cutting his eyes between  
and Mr. Brunner, like he wanted Mr. Brunner  notice what was going , but Mr. Brunner was 
absorbed  his novel. 

 looked back up. Mrs. Dodds had disappeared again. She was now inside  building, at  end of 
 entrance hall. 

Okay,  thought. She's going  make  buy  new shirt for Nancy at  gift shop. 
But apparently that wasn't  plan. 

 followed her deeper into  museum. When  finally caught up  her, we were back   Greek 
and Roman section. 



Except for us,  gallery was empty. 

Mrs. Dodds stood with her arms crossed  front of  big marble frieze of  Greek gods. She was 
making  weird noise  her throat, like growling. 

Even without  noise,  would've been nervous.  weird being alone with  teacher, especially 
Mrs. Dodds. Something about  way she looked at  frieze, as if she wanted  pulverize  . . . 
"You've been giving us problems, honey," she said. 
 did  safe thing.  said, "Yes, ma'am." 

She tugged   cuffs of her leather jacket. "Did  really think  would get away with ?" 

The look  her eyes was beyond mad. It was evil. 

She's  teacher,  thought nervously.  not like she's going  hurt . 

 said, "'ll— 'll try harder, ma'am." 

Thunder shook  building. 

"We are not fools, Percy Jackson," Mrs. Dodds said. "It was only  matter of time before we found 
 out. Confess, and  will suffer less pain." 
 didn't know what she was talking about. 

All  could think of was that  teachers must've found  illegal stash of candy 'd been selling 
out of my dorm room. Or maybe 'd realized  got my essay  Tom Sawyer from  Internet 
without ever reading  book and now  were going  take away my grade. Or worse,  were 
going  make  read  book. 

"Well?" she demanded. 

"Ma'am,  don't . . ." 

"Your time  up," she hissed. 

Then  weirdest thing happened. Her eyes began  glow like barbecue coals. Her fingers 
stretched, turning into talons. Her jacket melted into large, leathery wings. She wasn't human. She was  
shriveled hag with bat wings and claws and  mouth full of yellow fangs, and she was about  slice  
 ribbons. 

Then things got even stranger. 

Mr. Brunner, who'd been out  front of  museum  minute before, wheeled his chair into  
doorway of  gallery, holding  pen  his hand. 

"What ho, Percy!" he shouted, and tossed  pen through  air. 
Mrs. Dodds lunged at . 

With  yelp,  dodged and felt talons slash  air next  my ear.  snatched  ballpoint pen out of 
 air, but when  hit my hand,  wasn't  pen anymore. It was  sword — Mr. Brunner 's bronze sword, 
which he always used  tournament day. 

Mrs. Dodds spun toward  with  murderous look  her eyes. 

My knees were jelly. My hands were shaking so bad  almost dropped  sword. 

She snarled, "Die, honey!" 

And she flew straight at . 

Absolute terror ran through my body.  did  only thing that came naturally:  swung  sword. 
The metal blade hit her shoulder and passed clean through her body as if she were made of water. 
Hisss! 

Mrs. Dodds was  sand castle   power fan. She exploded into yellow powder, vaporized   



spot, leaving nothing but  smell of sulfur and  dying screech and  chill of evil   air, as if those 
two glowing red eyes were still watching . 

 was alone. 

There was  ballpoint pen  my hand. 

Mr. Brunner wasn't there. Nobody was there but . 

My hands were still trembling. My lunch must've been contaminated with magic mushrooms or 
something. 

Had  imagined  whole thing? 

 went back outside. 

It had started  rain. 

Grover was sitting by  fountain,  museum map tented over his head. Nancy Bobofit was still 
standing there, soaked from her swim   fountain, grumbling  her ugly friends. When she saw , 
she said, " hope Mrs. Kerr whipped your butt." 

 said, "Who?" 

"Our teacher. Duh!" 

 blinked. We had no teacher named Mrs. Kerr.  asked Nancy what she was talking about. 
She just rolled her eyes and turned away. 
 asked Grover where Mrs. Dodds was. 
He said, "Who?" 

But he paused first, and he wouldn't look at , so  thought he was messing with . 
"Not funny, man,"  told him. "This  serious." 
Thunder boomed overhead. 

 saw Mr. Brunner sitting under his red umbrella, reading his book, as if he'd never moved. 
 went over  him. 

He looked up,  little distracted. "Ah, that would be my pen. Please bring your own writing utensil 
  future, Mr. Jackson." 

 handed Mr. Brunner his pen.  hadn't even realized  was still holding . 

"Sir,"  said, "where's Mrs. Dodds?" 

He stared at  blankly. "Who?" 

"The other chaperone. Mrs. Dodds. The pre-algebra teacher." 

He frowned and sat forward, looking mildly concerned. "Percy, there  no Mrs. Dodds   trip. 
As far as  know, there has never been  Mrs. Dodds at Yancy Academy. Are  feeling all right?" 



 was used   occasional weird experience, but usually  were over quickly. This twenty- 
four/seven hallucination was more than  could handle. For  rest of  school year,  entire campus 
seemed  be playing some kind of trick  . The students acted as if  were completely and 
totally convinced that Mrs. Kerr —  perky blond woman whom 'd never seen  my life until she got  
our bus at  end of  field trip — had been our pre-algebra teacher since Christmas. 

Every so often  would spring  Mrs. Dodds reference  somebody, just  see if  could trip them 
up, but  would stare at  like  was psycho. 

It got so  almost believed them — Mrs. Dodds had never existed. 
Almost. 

But Grover couldn't fool . When  mentioned  name Dodds  him, he would hesitate, then 
claim she didn't exist. But  knew he was lying. 

Something was going . Something had happened at  museum. 

 didn't have much time  think about  during  days, but at night, visions of Mrs. Dodds with 
talons and leathery wings would wake  up   cold sweat. 

The freak weather continued, which didn't help my mood. One night,  thunderstorm blew out  
windows  my dorm room. A few days later,  biggest tornado ever spotted   Hudson Valley 
touched down only fifty miles from Yancy Academy. One of  current events we studied  social 
studies class was  unusual number of small planes that had gone down  sudden squalls   
Atlantic that year. 

 started feeling cranky and irritable most of  time. My grades slipped from Ds  Fs.  got into 
more fights with Nancy Bobofit and her friends.  was sent out into  hallway  almost every class. 

Finally, when our English teacher, Mr. Nicoll, asked  for  millionth time why  was too lazy  
study for spelling tests,  snapped.  called him an old sot.  wasn't even sure what  meant, but  
sounded good. 

The headmaster sent my mom  letter  following week, making  official:  would not be invited 
back next year  Yancy Academy. 
Fine,  told myself. Just fine. 
 was homesick. 

 wanted  be with my mom  our little apartment   Upper East Side, even if  had  go  
public school and put up with my obnoxious stepfather and his stupid poker parties. 

And yet . . . there were things 'd miss at Yancy. The view of  woods out my dorm window,  
Hudson River   distance,  smell of pine trees. 'd miss Grover, who'd been  good friend, even if 
he was  little strange.  worried how he'd survive next year without . 

'd miss Latin class, too — Mr. Brunner's crazy tournament days and his faith that  could do well. 

As exam week got closer, Latin was  only test  studied for.  hadn't forgotten what Mr. Brunner 



had told  about  subject being life-and-death for .  wasn't sure why, but 'd started  believe 
him. 

The evening before my final,  got so frustrated  threw  Cambridge Guide  Greek Mythology 
across my dorm room. Words had started swimming off  page, circling my head,  letters doing 
one-eighties as if  were riding skateboards. There was no way  was going  remember  
difference between Chiron and Charon, or Polydictes and Polydeuces. And conjugating those Latin 
verbs? Forget . 

 paced  room, feeling like ants were crawling around inside my shirt. 

 remembered Mr. Brunner's serious expression, his thousand-year-old eyes.  will accept only  
best from , Percy Jackson. 

 took  deep breath.  picked up  mythology book. 

'd never asked  teacher for help before. Maybe if  talked  Mr. Brunner, he could give  some 
pointers. At least  could apologize for  big fat F  was about  score  his exam.  didn't want  
leave Yancy Academy with him thinking  hadn't tried. 

 walked downstairs   faculty offices. Most of them were dark and empty, but Mr. Brunner's 
door was ajar, light from his window stretching across  hallway floor. 

 was three steps from  door handle when  heard voices inside  office. Mr. Brunner asked  
question. A voice that was definitely Grover's said ". . . worried about Percy, sir." 

 froze. 

 not usually an eavesdropper, but  dare   try not listening if  hear your best friend 
talking about   an adult. 
 inched closer. 

". . . alone  summer," Grover was saying. " mean,  Kindly One   school! Now that we 
know for sure, and  know too — " 

"We would only make matters worse by rushing him," Mr. Brunner said. "We need  boy  
mature more." 

"But he may not have time. The summer solstice deadline — " 

"Will have  be resolved without him, Grover. Let him enjoy his ignorance while he still can." 
"Sir, he saw her. . . ." 

"His imagination," Mr. Brunner insisted. "The Mist over  students and staff will be enough  
convince him of that." 

"Sir,  ...  can't fail  my duties again." Grover's voice was choked with emotion. "You know 
what that would mean." 

"You haven't failed, Grover," Mr. Brunner said kindly. " should have seen her for what she was. 
Now let's just worry about keeping Percy alive until next fall — " 

The mythology book dropped out of my hand and hit  floor with  thud. 
Mr. Brunner went silent. 

My heart hammering,  picked up  book and backed down  hall. 

A shadow slid across  lighted glass of Brunner's office door,  shadow of something much 
taller than my wheelchair-bound teacher, holding something that looked suspiciously like an archer's 
bow. 

 opened  nearest door and slipped inside. 

A few seconds later  heard  slow clop-clop-clop, like muffled wood blocks, then  sound like an 



animal snuffling right outside my door. A large, dark shape paused  front of  glass, then moved . 
A bead of sweat trickled down my neck. 

Somewhere   hallway, Mr. Brunner spoke. "Nothing," he murmured. "My nerves haven't been 
right since  winter solstice." 

"Mine neither," Grover said. "But  could have sworn . . ." 

"Go back   dorm," Mr. Brunner told him. "You've got  long day of exams tomorrow." 
"Don't remind ." 

The lights went out  Mr. Brunner 's office. 

 waited   dark for what seemed like forever. 

Finally,  slipped out into  hallway and made my way back up   dorm. 

Grover was lying  his bed, studying his Latin exam notes like he'd been there all night. 

"Hey," he said, bleary-eyed. "You going  be ready for  test?" 

 didn't answer. 

"You look awful." He frowned. "Is everything okay?" 
"Just . . . tired." 

 turned so he couldn't read my expression, and started getting ready for bed. 

 didn't understand what 'd heard downstairs.  wanted  believe 'd imagined  whole thing. 

But one thing was clear: Grover and Mr. Brunner were talking about  behind my back. They 
thought  was  some kind of danger. 

The next afternoon, as  was leaving  three-hour Latin exam, my eyes swimming with all  
Greek and Roman names 'd misspelled, Mr. Brunner called  back inside. 

For  moment,  was worried he'd found out about my eavesdropping  night before, but that 
didn't seem  be  problem. 

"Percy," he said. "Don't be discouraged about leaving Yancy.  . . .  for  best." 

His tone was kind, but  words still embarrassed . Even though he was speaking quietly,  
other kids finishing  test could hear. Nancy Bobofit smirked at  and made sarcastic little kissing 
motions with her lips. 

 mumbled, "Okay, sir." 

" mean . . ." Mr. Brunner wheeled his chair back and forth, like he wasn't sure what  say. "This 
isn't  right place for . It was only  matter of time." 
My eyes stung. 

Here was my favorite teacher,  front of  class, telling   couldn't handle . After saying he 
believed   all year, now he was telling   was destined  get kicked out. 

"Right,"  said, trembling. 

"No, no," Mr. Brunner said. "Oh, confound  all. What  trying  say . . . 're not normal, 
Percy. That's nothing  be — " 

"Thanks,"  blurted. "Thanks  lot, sir, for reminding ." 
"Percy—" 

But  was already gone. 

On  last day of  term,  shoved my clothes into my suitcase. 

The other guys were joking around, talking about their vacation plans. One of them was going   
hiking trip  Switzerland. Another was cruising  Caribbean for  month. They were juvenile 



delinquents, like , but  were rich juvenile delinquents. Their daddies were executives, or 
ambassadors, or celebrities.  was  nobody, from  family of nobodies. 

They asked  what 'd be doing  summer and  told them  was going back   city. 

What  didn't tell them was that 'd have  get  summer job walking dogs or selling magazine 
subscriptions, and spend my free time worrying about where 'd go  school   fall. 
"Oh," one of  guys said. "That's cool." 
They went back  their conversation as if 'd never existed. 

The only person  dreaded saying good-bye  was Grover, but as  turned out,  didn't have . 
He'd booked  ticket  Manhattan   same Greyhound as  had, so there we were, together again, 
heading into  city. 

During  whole bus ride, Grover kept glancing nervously down  aisle, watching  other 
passengers. It occurred   that he'd always acted nervous and fidgety when we left Yancy, as if he 
expected something bad  happen. Before, 'd always assumed he was worried about getting teased. 
But there was nobody  tease him   Greyhound. 

Finally  couldn't stand  anymore. 

 said, "Looking for Kindly Ones?" 

Grover nearly jumped out of his seat. "Wha — what do  mean?" 

 confessed about eavesdropping  him and Mr. Brunner  night before  exam. 

Graver's eye twitched. "How much did  hear?" 

"Oh . . . not much. What's  summer solstice deadline?" 

He winced. "Look, Percy ...  was just worried for , see?  mean, hallucinating about demon 
math teachers ..." 

"Grover — " 

"And  was telling Mr. Brunner that maybe  were overstressed or something, because there was 
no such person as Mrs. Dodds, and . . ." 

"Grover, 're  really, really bad liar." 

His ears turned pink. 

From his shirt pocket, he fished out  grubby business card. "Just take , okay? In case  need 
  summer." 

The card was  fancy script, which was murder  my dyslexic eyes, but  finally made out 
something like: 

Grover Underwood 

Keeper 
Half-Blood Hill 
Long Island, New York 
(800) 009-0009 

"What's Half—" 

"Don't say  aloud!" he yelped. "That's my, um . . . summer address." 

My heart sank. Grover had  summer home. 'd never considered that his family might be as rich as 
 others at Yancy. 



"Okay,"  said glumly. "So, like, if  want  come visit your mansion." 

He nodded. "Or ... or if  need ." 

"Why would  need ?" 

It came out harsher than  meant  . 

Grover blushed right down  his Adam's apple. "Look, Percy,  truth ,  —  kind of have  
protect ." 

 stared at him. 

All year long, 'd gotten  fights, keeping bullies away from him. 'd lost sleep worrying that he'd 
get beaten up next year without . And here he was acting like he was  one who defended . 
"Grover,"  said, "what exactly are  protecting  from?" 

There was  huge grinding noise under our feet. Black smoke poured from  dashboard and  
whole bus filled with  smell like rotten eggs. The driver cursed and limped  Greyhound over   
side of  highway. 

After  few minutes clanking around   engine compartment,  driver announced that we'd all 
have  get off. Grover and  filed outside with everybody else. 

We were   stretch of country road — no place 'd notice if  didn't break down there. On our 
side of  highway was nothing but maple trees and litter from passing cars. On  other side, across 
four lanes of asphalt shimmering with afternoon heat, was an old-fashioned fruit stand. 

The stuff  sale looked really good: heaping boxes of bloodred cherries and apples, walnuts and 
apricots, jugs of cider   claw-foot tub full of ice. There were no customers, just three old ladies sitting 
 rocking chairs   shade of  maple tree, knitting  biggest pair of socks 'd ever seen. 

 mean these socks were  size of sweaters, but  were clearly socks. The lady   right 
knitted one of them. The lady   left knitted  other. The lady   middle held an enormous 
basket of electric-blue yarn. 

All three women looked ancient, with pale faces wrinkled like fruit leather, silver hair tied back  
white bandannas, bony arms sticking out of bleached cotton dresses. 

The weirdest thing was,  seemed  be looking right at . 

 looked over at Grover  say something about  and saw that  blood had drained from his 
face. His nose was twitching. 

"Grover?"  said. "Hey, man—" 

"Tell   not looking at . They are, aren't ?" 
"Yeah. Weird, huh? You think those socks would fit ?" 
"Not funny, Percy. Not funny at all." 

The old lady   middle took out  huge pair of scissors — gold and silver, long-bladed, like 
shears.  heard Grover catch his breath. 

"We're getting   bus," he told . "Come ." 

"What?"  said. "  thousand degrees  there." 

"Come !" He pried open  door and climbed inside, but  stayed back. 

Across  road,  old ladies were still watching . The middle one cut  yarn, and  swear  
could hear that snip across four lanes of traffic. Her two friends balled up  electric-blue socks, 
leaving  wondering who  could possibly be for — Sasquatch or Godzilla. 

At  rear of  bus,  driver wrenched  big chunk of smoking metal out of  engine 
compartment. The bus shuddered, and  engine roared back  life. 



The passengers cheered. 

"Darn right!" yelled  driver. He slapped  bus with his hat. "Everybody back  board!" 

Once we got going,  started feeling feverish, as if 'd caught  flu. 

Grover didn't look much better. He was shivering and his teeth were chattering. 

"Grover?" 

"Yeah?" 

"What are  not telling ?" 

He dabbed his forehead with his shirt sleeve. "Percy, what did  see back at  fruit stand?" 

"You mean  old ladies? What   about them, man? They're not like . . . Mrs. Dodds, are ?" 

His expression was hard  read, but  got  feeling that  fruit-stand ladies were something 
much, much worse than Mrs. Dodds. He said, "Just tell  what  saw." 

"The middle one took out her scissors, and she cut  yarn." 

He closed his eyes and made  gesture with his fingers that might've been crossing himself, but  
wasn't. It was something else, something almost — older. 

He said, "You saw her snip  cord." 

"Yeah. So?" But even as  said ,  knew  was  big deal. 

"This  not happening," Grover mumbled. He started chewing at his thumb. " don't want   be 
like  last time." 
"What last time?" 

"Always sixth grade. They never get past sixth." 

"Grover,"  said, because he was really starting  scare . "What are  talking about?" 
"Let  walk  home from  bus station. Promise ." 
This seemed like  strange request  , but  promised he could. 
"Is  like  superstition or something?"  asked. 
No answer. 

"Grover — that snipping of  yarn. Does that mean somebody  going  die?" 
He looked at  mournfully, like he was already picking  kind of flowers 'd like best  my 
coffin. 

Confession time:  ditched Grover as soon as we got   bus terminal.  know,  know. It was rude. 
But Grover was freaking  out, looking at  like  was  dead man, muttering "Why does  always 
happen?" and "Why does  always have  he sixth grade?" 

Whenever he got upset, Graver's bladder acted up, so  wasn't surprised when, as soon as we got off 
 bus, he made  promise  wait for him, then made  beeline for  restroom. Instead of waiting,  
got my suitcase, slipped outside, and caught  first taxi uptown. 

"East One-hundred-and-fourth and First,"  told  driver. A word about my mother, before  
meet her. 

Her name  Sally Jackson and she's  best person   world, which just proves my theory that 
 best people have  rottenest luck. Her own parents died   plane crash when she was five, and 
she was raised by an uncle who didn't care much about her. She wanted  be  novelist, so she spent 
high school working  save enough money for  college with  good creativewriting program. Then her 
uncle got cancer, and she had  quit school her senior year  take care of him. After he died, she was 
left with no money, no family, and no diploma. The only good break she ever got was meeting my dad. 

 don't have any memories of him, just  sort of warm glow, maybe  barest trace of his smile. 
My mom doesn't like  talk about him because  makes her sad. She has no pictures. See,  weren't 
married. She told  he was rich and important, and their relationship was  secret. Then one day, he set 
sail across  Atlantic  some important journey, and he never came back. 

Lost at sea, my mom told . Not dead. Lost at sea. 

She worked odd jobs, took night classes  get her high school diploma, and raised   her own. 
She never complained or got mad. Not even once. But  knew  wasn't an easy kid. Finally, she married 
Gabe Ugliano, who was nice  first thirty seconds we knew him, then showed his true colors as  
world-class jerk. When  was young,  nicknamed him Smelly Gabe.  sorry, but   truth. The guy 
reeked like moldy garlic pizza wrapped  gym shorts. Between  two of us, we made my mom's life 
pretty hard. The way Smelly Gabe treated her,  way he and  got along ... well, when  came home  
 good example. 

 walked into our little apartment, hoping my mom would be home from work. Instead, Smelly Gabe 
was   living room, playing poker with his buddies. The television blared ESPN. Chips and beer 
cans were strewn all over  carpet. 

Hardly looking up, he said around his cigar, "So, 're home." 

"Where's my mom?" 

"Working," he said. "You got any cash?" 

That was . No Welcome back. Good  see . How has your life been  last six months? 

Gabe had put  weight. He looked like  tuskless walrus  thrift-store clothes. He had about three 
hairs  his head, all combed over his bald scalp, as if that made him handsome or something. 



He managed  Electronics Mega-Mart  Queens, but he stayed home most of  time.  don't 
know why he hadn't been fired long before. He just kept  collecting paychecks, spending  money 
 cigars that made  nauseous, and  beer, of course. Always beer. Whenever  was home, he 
expected   provide his gambling funds. He called that our "guy secret." Meaning, if  told my mom, 
he would punch my lights out. 

" don't have any cash,"  told him. 

He raised  greasy eyebrow. 

Gabe could sniff out money like  bloodhound, which was surprising, since his own smell should've 
covered up everything else. 

"You took  taxi from  bus station," he said. Probably paid with  twenty. Got six, seven bucks  
change. Somebody expects  live under  roof, he ought  carry his own weight. Am  right, 
Eddie?" 

Eddie,  super of  apartment building, looked at  with  twinge of sympathy. "Come , 
Gabe," he said. "The kid just got here." 

"Am  right? " Gabe repeated. 

Eddie scowled into his bowl of pretzels. The other two guys passed gas  harmony. 

"Fine,"  said.  dug  wad of dollars out of my pocket and threw  money   table. " hope 
 lose." 

"Your report card came, brain boy!" he shouted after . " wouldn't act so snooty!"  slammed  
door  my room, which really wasn't my room. During school months,  was Gabe's "study." He didn't 
study anything  there except old car magazines, but he loved shoving my stuff   closet, leaving 
his muddy boots  my windowsill, and doing his best  make  place smell like his nasty cologne 
and cigars and stale beer. 

 dropped my suitcase   bed. Home sweet home. 

Gabe's smell was almost worse than  nightmares about Mrs. Dodds, or  sound of that old fruit 
lady's shears snipping  yarn. 

But as soon as  thought that, my legs felt weak.  remembered Graver's look of panic — how he'd 
made  promise  wouldn't go home without him. A sudden chill rolled through .  felt like 
someone — something — was looking for  right now, maybe pounding its way up  stairs, growing 
long, horrible talons. 

Then  heard my mom's voice. "Percy?" 

She opened  bedroom door, and my fears melted. 

My mother can make  feel good just by walking into  room. Her eyes sparkle and change color 
  light. Her smile  as warm as  quilt. She's got  few gray streaks mixed  with her long brown 
hair, but  never think of her as old. When she looks at ,  like she's seeing all  good things about 
, none of  bad. 've never heard her raise her voice or say an unkind word  anyone, not even  
or Gabe. 

"Oh, Percy." She hugged  tight. " can't believe . You've grown since Christmas!" Her red- 
white-and-blue Sweet  America uniform smelled like  best things   world: chocolate, licorice, 
and all  other stuff she sold at  candy shop  Grand Central. She'd brought   huge bag of "free 
samples,"  way she always did when  came home. We sat together   edge of  bed. While  
attacked  blueberry sour strings, she ran her hand through my hair and demanded  know everything 
 hadn't put  my letters. She didn't mention anything about my getting expelled. She didn't seem  
care about that. But was  okay? 



Was her little boy doing all right? 

 told her she was smothering , and  lay off and all that, but secretly,  was really, really glad  
see her. 

From  other room, Gabe yelled, "Hey, Sally — how about some bean dip, huh?"  gritted my teeth. 
My mom   nicest lady   world. She should've been married   millionaire, not  some 
jerk like Gabe. 

For her sake,  tried  sound upbeat about my last days at Yancy Academy.  told her  wasn't too 
down about  expulsion. 'd lasted almost  whole year  time. 'd made some new friends. 'd 
done pretty well  Latin. And honestly,  fights hadn't been as bad as  headmaster said.  liked 
Yancy Academy.  really did.  put such  good spin   year,  almost convinced myself.  started 
choking up, thinking about Grover and Mr. Brunner. Even Nancy Bobofit suddenly didn't seem so bad. 

Until that trip   museum ... 

"What?" my mom asked. Her eyes tugged at my conscience, trying  pull out  secrets. 
"Did something scare ?" 
"No, Mom." 

 felt bad lying.  wanted  tell her about Mrs. Dodds and  three old ladies with  yarn, but  
thought  would sound stupid. 

She pursed her lips. She knew  was holding back, but she didn't push . 

" have  surprise for ," she said. "We're going   beach." My eyes widened. "Montauk?" 

"Three nights — same cabin." 

"When?" 

She smiled. "As soon as  get changed." 

 couldn't believe . My mom and  hadn't been  Montauk  last two summers, because Gabe 
said there wasn't enough money. 

Gabe appeared   doorway and growled, "Bean dip, Sally? Didn't  hear ?"  wanted  
punch him, but  met my mom's eyes and  understood she was offering   deal: be nice  Gabe for  
little while. Just until she was ready  leave for Montauk. Then we would get out of here. 

" was  my way, honey," she told Gabe. "We were just talking about  trip." Gabe's eyes got 
small. "The trip? You mean  were serious about that?" 

" knew ,"  muttered. "He won't let us go." 

"Of course he will," my mom said evenly. "Your stepfather  just worried about money. That's all. 
Besides," she added, "Gabriel won't have  settle for bean dip. 'll make him enough seven-layer dip for 
 whole weekend. Guacamole. Sour cream. The works." Gabe softened  bit. "So  money for your 
trip ...  comes out of your clothes budget, right?" 

"Yes, honey," my mother said. 

"And  won't take my car anywhere but there and back." 
"We'll be very careful." 

Gabe scratched his double chin. "Maybe if  hurry with that seven-layer dip ... And maybe if  
kid apologizes for interrupting my poker game." 

Maybe if  kick   your soft spot,  thought. And make  sing soprano for  week. But my 
mom's eyes warned  not  make him mad. 

Why did she put up with  guy?  wanted  scream. Why did she care what he thought? 

" sorry,"  muttered. " really sorry  interrupted your incredibly important poker game. Please 



go back   right now." 

Gabe's eyes narrowed. His tiny brain was probably trying  detect sarcasm  my statement. 
"Yeah, whatever," he decided. 
He went back  his game. 

"Thank , Percy," my mom said. "Once we get  Montauk, we'll talk more about... whatever 
've forgotten  tell , okay?" 

For  moment,  thought  saw anxiety  her eyes —  same fear 'd seen  Grover during  bus 
ride — as if my mom too felt an odd chill   air. 

But then her smile returned, and  figured  must have been mistaken. She ruffled my hair and went 
 make Gabe his seven-layer dip. 

An hour later we were ready  leave. 

Gabe took  break from his poker game long enough  watch  lug my mom's bags   car. He 
kept griping and groaning about losing her cooking — and more important, his 78 

Camaro — for  whole weekend. 

"Not  scratch   car, brain boy," he warned  as  loaded  last bag. "Not one little scratch." 
Like 'd be  one driving.  was twelve. But that didn't matter  Gabe. If  seagull so much as 
pooped  his paint job, he'd find  way  blame . 

Watching him lumber back toward  apartment building,  got so mad  did something  can't 
explain. As Gabe reached  doorway,  made  hand gesture 'd seen Grover make   bus,  sort 
of warding-off-evil gesture,  clawed hand over my heart, then  shoving movement toward Gabe. The 
screen door slammed shut so hard  whacked him   butt and sent him flying up  staircase as if 
he'd been shot from  cannon. Maybe  was just  wind, or some freak accident with  hinges, but  
didn't stay long enough  find out.  got   Camaro and told my mom  step  . 

Our rental cabin was   south shore, way out at  tip of Long Island. It was  little pastel box 
with faded curtains, half sunken into  dunes. There was always sand   sheets and spiders   
cabinets, and most of  time  sea was too cold  swim .  loved  place. 

We'd been going there since  was  baby. My mom had been going even longer. She never exactly 
said, but  knew why  beach was special  her. It was  place where she'd met my dad. 

As we got closer  Montauk, she seemed  grow younger, years of worry and work disappearing 
from her face. Her eyes turned  color of  sea. 

We got there at sunset, opened all  cabin's windows, and went through our usual cleaning routine. 
We walked   beach, fed blue corn chips   seagulls, and munched  blue jelly beans, blue 
saltwater taffy, and all  other free samples my mom had brought from work.  guess  should explain 
 blue food. 

See, Gabe had once told my mom there was no such thing. They had  fight, which seemed like  
really small thing at  time. But ever since, my mom went out of her way  eat blue. She baked blue 
birthday cakes. She mixed blueberry smoothies. She bought blue-corn tortilla chips and brought home 
blue candy from  shop. This — along with keeping her maiden name, Jackson, rather than calling 
herself Mrs. Ugliano — was proof that she wasn't totally suckered by Gabe. She did have  rebellious 
streak, like . 

When  got dark, we made  fire. We roasted hot dogs and marshmallows. Mom told  stories 
about when she was  kid, back before her parents died   plane crash. She told  about  books 
she wanted  write someday, when she had enough money  quit  candy shop. 

Eventually,  got up  nerve  ask about what was always  my mind whenever we came  



Montauk — my father. Mom's eyes went all misty.  figured she would tell   same things she 
always did, but  never got tired of hearing them. 

"He was kind, Percy," she said. "Tall, handsome, and powerful. But gentle, too. You have his black 
hair,  know, and his green eyes." 

Mom fished  blue jelly bean out of her candy bag. " wish he could see , Percy. He would be so 
proud." 

 wondered how she could say that. What was so great about ? A dyslexic, hyperactive boy with  
D+ report card, kicked out of school for  sixth time  six years. 

"How old was ?"  asked. " mean ... when he left?" She watched  flames. "He was only with  
for one summer, Percy. Right here at  beach. This cabin." 

"But... he knew  as  baby." 

"No, honey. He knew  was expecting  baby, but he never saw . He had  leave before  
were born." 

 tried  square that with  fact that  seemed  remember ... something about my father. A warm 
glow. A smile. 

 had always assumed he knew  as  baby. My mom had never said  outright, but still, 'd felt  
must be true. Now,  be told that he'd never even seen  ...  felt angry at my father. Maybe  was 
stupid, but  resented him for going  that ocean voyage, for not having  guts  marry my mom. 
He'd left us, and now we were stuck with Smelly Gabe. 

"Are  going  send  away again?"  asked her. "To another boarding school?" She pulled  
marshmallow from  fire. 

" don't know, honey." Her voice was heavy. " think ...  think we'll have  do something." 

"Because  don't want  around?"  regretted  words as soon as  were out. My mom's 
eyes welled with tears. She took my hand, squeezed  tight. "Oh, Percy, no.  —  have , honey. For 
your own good.  have  send  away." Her words reminded  of what Mr. Brunner had said — that 
 was best for   leave Yancy. 

"Because  not normal,"  said. 

"You say that as if   bad thing, Percy. But  don't realize how important  are.  thought 
Yancy Academy would be far enough away.  thought 'd finally be safe." 

"Safe from what?" 

She met my eyes, and  flood of memories came back   — all  weird, scary things that had 
ever happened  , some of which 'd tried  forget. 

During third grade,  man   black trench coat had stalked    playground. When  
teachers threatened  call  police, he went away growling, but no one believed  when  told them 
that under his broad-brimmed hat,  man only had one eye, right   middle of his head. Before that 
—  really early memory.  was  preschool, and  teacher accidentally put  down for  nap   cot 
that  snake had slithered into. My mom screamed when she came  pick  up and found  playing 
with  limp, scaly rope 'd somehow managed  strangle  death with my meaty toddler hands. 

In every single school, something creepy had happened, something unsafe, and  was forced  
move. 

 knew  should tell my mom about  old ladies at  fruit stand, and Mrs. Dodds at  art 
museum, about my weird hallucination that  had sliced my math teacher into dust with  sword. But  
couldn't make myself tell her.  had  strange feeling  news would end our trip  Montauk, and  
didn't want that. 



"'ve tried  keep  as close   as  could," my mom said. "They told  that was  mistake. 
But there's only one other option, Percy —  place your father wanted  send . And  just...  just 
can't stand  do ." 

"My father wanted   go   special school?" 

"Not  school," she said softly. "A summer camp." My head was spinning. Why would my dad — 
who hadn't even stayed around long enough  see  born — talk  my mom about  summer camp? 
And if  was so important, why hadn't she ever mentioned  before? 

" sorry, Percy," she said, seeing  look  my eyes. "But  can't talk about .  —  couldn't send 
  that place. It might mean saying good-bye   for good." 

"For good? But if  only  summer camp ..." 

She turned toward  fire, and  knew from her expression that if  asked her any more questions 
she would start  cry. 

That night  had  vivid dream. 

It was storming   beach, and two beautiful animals,  white horse and  golden eagle, were 
trying  kill each other at  edge of  surf. The eagle swooped down and slashed  horse's muzzle 
with its huge talons. The horse reared up and kicked at  eagles wings. As  fought,  ground 
rumbled, and  monstrous voice chuckled somewhere beneath  earth, goading  animals  fight 
harder. 

 ran toward them, knowing  had  stop them from killing each other, but  was running  slow 
motion.  knew  would be too late.  saw  eagle dive down, its beak aimed at  horse's wide eyes, 
and  screamed, No! 

 woke with  start. 

Outside,  really was storming,  kind of storm that cracks trees and blows down houses. There 
was no horse or eagle   beach, just lightning making false daylight, and twenty-foot waves 
pounding  dunes like artillery. 

With  next thunderclap, my mom woke. She sat up, eyes wide, and said, "Hurricane."  knew that 
was crazy. Long Island never sees hurricanes  early   summer. But  ocean seemed  have 
forgotten. Over  roar of  wind,  heard  distant bellow, an angry, tortured sound that made my hair 
stand  end. 

Then  much closer noise, like mallets   sand. A desperate voice — someone yelling, pounding 
 our cabin door. 

My mother sprang out of bed  her nightgown and threw open  lock. Grover stood framed   
doorway against  backdrop of pouring rain. But he wasn't... he wasn't exactly Grover. 

"Searching all night," he gasped. "What were  thinking?" My mother looked at   terror — not 
scared of Grover, but of why he'd come. 

"Percy," she said, shouting  be heard over  rain. "What happened at school? What didn't  tell 
?" 

 was frozen, looking at Grover.  couldn't understand what  was seeing. 

"O Zeu kai alloi theoi!" he yelled. " right behind ! Didn't  tell her?"  was too shocked  
register that he'd just cursed  Ancient Greek, and 'd understood him perfectly.  was too shocked  
wonder how Grover had gotten here by himself   middle of  night. Because Grover didn't have 
his pants  — and where his legs should be ... where his legs should be ... 

My mom looked at  sternly and talked   tone she'd never used before: "Percy. Tell  now!" 
 stammered something about  old ladies at  fruit stand, and Mrs. Dodds, and my mom stared 



at , her face deathly pale   flashes of lightning. 

She grabbed her purse, tossed  my rain jacket, and said, "Get   car. Both of 
. Go! " Grover ran for  Camaro — but he wasn't running, exactly. He was trotting, shaking his 
shaggy hindquarters, and suddenly his story about  muscular disorder  his legs made sense  .  
understood how he could run so fast and still limp when he walked. Because where his feet should be, 
there were no feet. There were cloven hooves. 


We tore through  night along dark country roads. Wind slammed against  Camaro. Rain lashed 
 windshield.  didn't know how my mom could see anything, but she kept her foot   gas. 

Every time there was  flash of lightning,  looked at Grover sitting next     backseat and  
wondered if 'd gone insane, or if he was wearing some kind of shag-carpet pants. But, no,  smell 
was one  remembered from kindergarten field trips   petting zoo — lanolin, like from wool. The 
smell of  wet barnyard animal. 

All  could think  say was, "So,  and my mom . . . know each other?" 

Graver's eyes flitted   rearview mirror, though there were no cars behind us. "Not exactly," he 
said. " mean, we've never met  person. But she knew  was watching ." 

"Watching ?" 

"Keeping tabs  . Making sure  were okay. But  wasn't faking being your friend," he added 
hastily. "  your friend." 

"Urn . . . what are , exactly?" 
"That doesn't matter right now." 

"It doesn't matter? From  waist down, my best friend   donkey — " 
Grover let out  sharp, throaty "Blaa-ha-ha!" 

'd heard him make that sound before, but 'd always assumed  was  nervous laugh. Now  
realized  was more of an irritated bleat. 
"Goat!" he cried. 
"What?" 

"  goat from  waist down." 
"You just said  didn't matter." 

"Blaa-ha-ha! There are satyrs who would trample  underhoof for such an insult!" 

"Whoa. Wait. Satyrs. You mean like . . . Mr. Brunner's myths?" 

"Were those old ladies at  fruit stand  myth, Percy? Was Mrs. Dodds  myth?" 

"So  admit there was  Mrs. Dodds!" 

"Of course." 

"Then why—" 

"The less  knew,  fewer monsters 'd attract," Grover said, like that should be perfectly 
obvious. "We put Mist over  humans' eyes. We hoped 'd think  Kindly One was  
hallucination. But  was no good. You started  realize who  are." 

"Who  — wait  minute, what do  mean?" 

The weird bellowing noise rose up again somewhere behind us, closer than before. Whatever was 
chasing us was still  our trail. 



"Percy," my mom said, "there's too much  explain and not enough time. We have  get   
safety." 

"Safety from what? Who's after ?" 

"Oh, nobody much," Grover said, obviously still miffed about  donkey comment. "Just  Lord 
of  Dead and  few of his blood-thirstiest minions." 
"Grover!" 

"Sorry, Mrs. Jackson. Could  drive faster, please?" 

 tried  wrap my mind around what was happening, but  couldn't do .  knew  wasn't  
dream.  had no imagination.  could never dream up something  weird. 

My mom made  hard left. We swerved onto  narrower road, racing past darkened farmhouses and 
wooded hills and PICK YOUR OWN STRAWBERRIES signs  white picket fences. 
"Where are we going?"  asked. 

"The summer camp  told  about." My mother's voice was tight; she was trying for my sake not 
 be scared. "The place your father wanted  send ." 

"The place  didn't want   go." 

"Please, dear," my mother begged. "This  hard enough. Try  understand. You're  danger." 
"Because some old ladies cut yarn." 

"Those weren't old ladies," Grover said. "Those were  Fates. Do  know what  means —  
fact  appeared  front of ? They only do that when 're about  . . . when someone's about 
 die." 

"Whoa. You said '.'" 

"No  didn't.  said 'someone.'" 

"You meant '.' As  ." 

" meant , like 'someone.' Not , ." 

"Boys!" my mom said. 

She pulled  wheel hard   right, and  got  glimpse of  figure she'd swerved  avoid —  
dark fluttering shape now lost behind us   storm. 
"What was that?"  asked. 

"We're almost there," my mother said, ignoring my question. "Another mile. Please. Please. 
Please." 

 didn't know where there was, but  found myself leaning forward   car, anticipating, wanting 
us  arrive. 

Outside, nothing but rain and darkness —  kind of empty countryside  get way out   tip of 
Long Island.  thought about Mrs. Dodds and  moment when she'd changed into  thing with 
pointed teeth and leathery wings. My limbs went numb from delayed shock. She really hadn't been 
human. She'd meant  kill . 

Then  thought about Mr. Brunner . . . and  sword he had thrown . Before  could ask Grover 
about that,  hair rose   back of my neck. There was  blinding flash,  jaw-rattling boom!, and 
our car exploded. 

 remember feeling weightless, like  was being crushed, fried, and hosed down all at  same time. 
 peeled my forehead off  back of  driver's seat and said, "Ow." 
"Percy!" my mom shouted. 



" okay. . . ." 

 tried  shake off  daze.  wasn't dead. The car hadn't really exploded. We'd swerved into  
ditch. Our driver 's-side doors were wedged   mud. The roof had cracked open like an eggshell and 
rain was pouring . 

Lightning. That was  only explanation. We'd been blasted right off  road. Next     
backseat was  big motionless lump. "Grover!" 

He was slumped over, blood trickling from  side of his mouth.  shook his furry hip, thinking, 
No! Even if  are half barnyard animal, 're my best friend and  don't want   die! 

Then he groaned "Food," and  knew there was hope. 

"Percy," my mother said, "we have  . . ." Her voice faltered. 

 looked back. In  flash of lightning, through  mud-spattered rear windshield,  saw  figure 
lumbering toward us   shoulder of  road. The sight of  made my skin crawl. It was  dark 
silhouette of  huge guy, like  football player. He seemed  be holding  blanket over his head. His top 
half was bulky and fuzzy. His upraised hands made  look like he had horns. 

 swallowed hard. "Who  — " 

"Percy," my mother said, deadly serious. "Get out of  car." 

My mother threw herself against  driver's-side door. It was jammed shut   mud.  tried mine. 
Stuck too.  looked up desperately at  hole   roof. It might've been an exit, but  edges were 
sizzling and smoking. 

"Climb out  passenger's side!" my mother told . "Percy —  have  run. Do  see that big 
tree?" 

"What?" 

Another flash of lightning, and through  smoking hole   roof  saw  tree she meant:  
huge, White House Christmas tree-sized pine at  crest of  nearest hill. 

"That's  property line," my mom said. "Get over that hill and 'll see  big farmhouse down  
 valley. Run and don't look back. Yell for help. Don't stop until  reach  door." 

"Mom, 're coming too." 

Her face was pale, her eyes as sad as when she looked at  ocean. 
"No!"  shouted. "You are coming with . Help  carry Grover." 
"Food!" Grover moaned,  little louder. 

The man with  blanket  his head kept coming toward us, making his grunting, snorting noises. 
As he got closer,  realized he couldn 't be holding  blanket over his head, because his hands — huge 
meaty hands — were swinging at his sides. There was no blanket. Meaning  bulky, fuzzy mass that 
was too big  be his head . . . was his head. And  points that looked like horns . . . 

"He doesn't want us," my mother told . "He wants . Besides,  can't cross  property line." 

"But . . ." 

"We don't have time, Percy. Go. Please." 

 got mad, then — mad at my mother, at Grover  goat, at  thing with horns that was lumbering 
toward us slowly and deliberately like, like  bull. 

 climbed across Grover and pushed  door open into  rain. "We're going together. Come , 
Mom." 

" told you—" 

"Mom!   not leaving . Help  with Grover." 



 didn't wait for her answer.  scrambled outside, dragging Grover from  car. He was surprisingly 
light, but  couldn't have carried him very far if my mom hadn't come  my aid. 

Together, we draped Graver's arms over our shoulders and started stumbling uphill through wet 
waist-high grass. 

Glancing back,  got my first clear look at  monster. He was seven feet tall, easy, his arms and 
legs like something from  cover of Muscle Man magazine — bulging biceps and triceps and  bunch 
of other 'ceps, all stuffed like baseballs under vein-webbed skin. He wore no clothes except underwear 
—  mean, bright white Fruit of  Looms — which would 've looked funny, except that  top half of 
his body was so scary. Coarse brown hair started at about his belly button and got thicker as  reached 
his shoulders. 

His neck was  mass of muscle and fur leading up  his enormous head, which had  snout as long 
as my arm, snotty nostrils with  gleaming brass ring, cruel black eyes, and horns — enormous black- 
and-white horns with points  just couldn't get from an electric sharpener. 

 recognized  monster, all right. He had been  one of  first stories Mr. Brunner told us. But he 
couldn't be real. 

 blinked  rain out of my eyes. "That's — " 

"Pasiphae's son," my mother said. " wish 'd known how badly  want  kill ." 
"But he's  Min— " 

"Don't say his name," she warned. "Names have power." 

The pine tree was still way too far —  hundred yards uphill at least. 

 glanced behind  again. 

The bull-man hunched over our car, looking   windows — or not looking, exactly. More like 
snuffling, nuzzling.  wasn't sure why he bothered, since we were only about fifty feet away. 

"Food?" Grover moaned. 

"Shhh,"  told him. "Mom, what's he doing? Doesn't he see us?" 

"His sight and hearing are terrible," she said. "He goes by smell. But he'll figure out where we are 
soon enough." 

As if  cue,  bull-man bellowed  rage. He picked up Gabe's Camaro by  torn roof,  
chassis creaking and groaning. He raised  car over his head and threw  down  road. It slammed 
into  wet asphalt and skidded   shower of sparks for about half  mile before coming   stop. The 
gas tank exploded. 

Not  scratch,  remembered Gabe saying. 

Oops. 

"Percy," my mom said. "When he sees us, he'll charge. Wait until  last second, then jump out of 
 way — directly sideways. He can't change directions very well once he's charging. Do  
understand?" 

"How do  know all ?" 

"'ve been worried about an attack for  long time.  should have expected .  was selfish, 
keeping  near ." 

"Keeping  near ? But — " 

Another bellow of rage, and  bull-man started tramping uphill. 
He'd smelled us. 

The pine tree was only  few more yards, but  hill was getting steeper and slicker, and Grover 



wasn't getting any lighter. 

The bull-man closed . Another few seconds and he'd be  top of us. 

My mother must've been exhausted, but she shouldered Grover. "Go, Percy! Separate! Remember 
what  said." 

 didn't want  split up, but  had  feeling she was right —  was our only chance.  sprinted   
left, turned, and saw  creature bearing down  . His black eyes glowed with hate. He reeked like 
rotten meat. 

He lowered his head and charged, those razor-sharp horns aimed straight at my chest. 

The fear  my stomach made  want  bolt, but that wouldn't work.  could never outrun  
thing. So  held my ground, and at  last moment,  jumped   side. 

The bull-man stormed past like  freight train, then bellowed with frustration and turned, but not 
toward   time, toward my mother, who was setting Grover down   grass. 

We'd reached  crest of  hill. Down  other side  could see  valley, just as my mother had 
said, and  lights of  farmhouse glowing yellow through  rain. But that was half  mile away. 
We'd never make . 

The bull-man grunted, pawing  ground. He kept eyeing my mother, who was now retreating 
slowly downhill, back toward  road, trying  lead  monster away from Grover. 

"Run, Percy!" she told . " can't go any farther. Run!" 

But  just stood there, frozen  fear, as  monster charged her. She tried  sidestep, as she'd told 
  do, but  monster had learned his lesson. His hand shot out and grabbed her by  neck as she 
tried  get away. He lifted her as she struggled, kicking and pummeling  air. 

"Mom!" 

She caught my eyes, managed  choke out one last word: "Go!" 

Then, with an angry roar,  monster closed his fists around my mother's neck, and she dissolved 
before my eyes, melting into light,  shimmering golden form, as if she were  holographic projection. 
A blinding flash, and she was simply . . . gone. 

"No!" 

Anger replaced my fear. Newfound strength burned  my limbs —  same rush of energy 'd 
gotten when Mrs. Dodds grew talons. 

The bull-man bore down  Grover, who lay helpless   grass. The monster hunched over, 
snuffling my best friend, as if he were about  lift Grover up and make him dissolve too. 

 couldn't allow that. 

 stripped off my red rain jacket. 

"Hey!"  screamed, waving  jacket, running  one side of  monster. "Hey, stupid! Ground 
beef!" 

"Raaaarrrrr!" The monster turned toward , shaking his meaty fists. 

 had an idea —  stupid idea, but better than no idea at all.  put my back   big pine tree and 
waved my red jacket  front of  bull-man, thinking 'd jump out of  way at  last moment. 

But  didn't happen like that. 

The bull-man charged too fast, his arms out  grab  whichever way  tried  dodge. 
Time slowed down. 

My legs tensed.  couldn't jump sideways, so  leaped straight up, kicking off from  creature's 
head, using  as  springboard, turning  midair, and landing  his neck. 



How did  do that?  didn't have time  figure  out. A millisecond later,  monster's head 
slammed into  tree and  impact nearly knocked my teeth out. 

The bull-man staggered around, trying  shake .  locked my arms around his horns  keep from 
being thrown. Thunder and lightning were still going strong. The rain was  my eyes. The smell of 
rotten meat burned my nostrils. 

The monster shook himself around and bucked like  rodeo bull. He should have just backed up into 
 tree and smashed  flat, but  was starting  realize that  thing had only one gear: forward. 

Meanwhile, Grover started groaning   grass.  wanted  yell at him  shut up, but  way  
was getting tossed around, if  opened my mouth 'd bite my own tongue off. 

"Food!" Grover moaned. 

The bull-man wheeled toward him, pawed  ground again, and got ready  charge.  thought 
about how he had squeezed  life out of my mother, made her disappear   flash of light, and rage 
filled  like high-octane fuel.  got both hands around one horn and  pulled backward with all my 
might. The monster tensed, gave  surprised grunt, then — snap! 

The bull-man screamed and flung  through  air.  landed flat  my back   grass. My head 
smacked against  rock. When  sat up, my vision was blurry, but  had  horn  my hands,  ragged 
bone weapon  size of  knife. 

The monster charged. 

Without thinking,  rolled  one side and came up kneeling. As  monster barreled past,  drove 
 broken horn straight into his side, right up under his furry rib cage. 

The bull-man roared  agony. He flailed, clawing at his chest, then began  disintegrate — not like 
my mother,   flash of golden light, but like crumbling sand, blown away  chunks by  wind,  
same way Mrs. Dodds had burst apart. 

The monster was gone. 

The rain had stopped. The storm still rumbled, but only   distance.  smelled like livestock and 
my knees were shaking. My head felt like  was splitting open.  was weak and scared and trembling 
with grief. 'd just seen my mother vanish.  wanted  lie down and cry, but there was Grover, needing 
my help, so  managed  haul him up and stagger down into  valley, toward  lights of  
farmhouse.  was crying, calling for my mother, but  held   Grover —  wasn't going  let him go. 

The last thing  remember  collapsing   wooden porch, looking up at  ceiling fan circling 
above , moths flying around  yellow light, and  stern faces of  familiar-looking bearded man and 
 pretty girl, her blond hair curled like  princess's. They both looked down at , and  girl said, 
"He's  one. He must be." 

"Silence, Annabeth,"  man said. "He's still conscious. Bring him inside." 

 had weird dreams full of barnyard animals. Most of them wanted  kill . The rest wanted food. 

 must've woken up several times, but what  heard and saw made no sense, so  just passed out 
again.  remember lying   soft bed, being spoon-fed something that tasted like buttered popcorn, only 
 was pudding. The girl with curly blond hair hovered over , smirking as she scraped drips off my 
chin with  spoon. 

When she saw my eyes open, she asked, "What will happen at  summer solstice?" 
 managed  croak, "What?" 

She looked around, as if afraid someone would overhear. "What's going ? What was stolen? 
We've only got  few weeks!" 

" sorry,"  mumbled, " don't . . ." 

Somebody knocked   door, and  girl quickly filled my mouth with pudding. 
The next time  woke up,  girl was gone. 

A husky blond dude, like  surfer, stood   corner of  bedroom keeping watch over . He 
had blue eyes — at least  dozen of them —  his cheeks, his forehead,  backs of his hands. 

* * * 

When  finally came around for good, there was nothing weird about my surroundings, except that 
 were nicer than  was used .  was sitting   deck chair   huge porch, gazing across  
meadow at green hills   distance. The breeze smelled like strawberries. There was  blanket over 
my legs,  pillow behind my neck. All that was great, but my mouth felt like  scorpion had been using 
 for  nest. My tongue was dry and nasty and every one of my teeth hurt. 

On  table next   was  tall drink. It looked like iced apple juice, with  green straw and  
paper parasol stuck through  maraschino cherry. 

My hand was so weak  almost dropped  glass once  got my fingers around . 

"Careful,"  familiar voice said. 

Grover was leaning against  porch railing, looking like he hadn't slept   week. Under one arm, 
he cradled  shoe box. He was wearing blue jeans, Converse hi-tops and  bright orange T-shirt that said 
CAMP HALF-BLOOD. Just plain old Grover. Not  goat boy. 

So maybe 'd had  nightmare. Maybe my mom was okay. We were still  vacation, and we'd 
stopped here at  big house for some reason. And . . . 

"You saved my life," Grover said. " . . . well,  least  could do ...  went back   hill.  
thought  might want ." 

Reverently, he placed  shoe box  my lap. 

Inside was  black-and-white bull's horn,  base jagged from being broken off,  tip splattered 
with dried blood. 



It hadn't been  nightmare. 

"The Minotaur,"  said. 

"Um, Percy,  isn't  good idea — " 

"That's what  call him   Greek myths, isn't ?"  demanded. "The Minotaur. Half man, half 
bull." 

Grover shifted uncomfortably. "You've been out for two days. How much do  remember?" 
"My mom. Is she really . . ." 
He looked down. 

 stared across  meadow. There were groves of trees,  winding stream, acres of strawberries 
spread out under  blue sky. The valley was surrounded by rolling hills, and  tallest one, directly  
front of us, was  one with  huge pine tree  top. Even that looked beautiful   sunlight. 

My mother was gone. The whole world should be black and cold. Nothing should look beautiful. 

" sorry," Grover sniffled. "  failure.  —   worst satyr   world." 

He moaned, stomping his foot so hard  came off.  mean,  Converse hi-top came off. The inside 
was filled with Styrofoam, except for  hoof -shaped hole. 
"Oh, Styx!" he mumbled. 
Thunder rolled across  clear sky. 

As he struggled  get his hoof back   fake foot,  thought, Well, that settles . 

Grover was  satyr.  was ready  bet that if  shaved his curly brown hair, 'd find tiny horns  his 
head. But  was too miserable  care that satyrs existed, or even minotaurs. 

All that meant was my mom really had been squeezed into nothingness, dissolved into yellow light. 

 was alone. An orphan.  would have  live with . . . Smelly Gabe? No. That would never happen.  
would live   streets first.  would pretend  was seventeen and join  army. 'd do something. 

Grover was still sniffling. The poor kid — poor goat, satyr, whatever — looked as if he expected  be 

hit. 

 said, "It wasn't your fault." 

"Yes,  was.  was supposed  protect ." 

"Did my mother ask   protect ?" 

"No. But that's my job.   keeper. At least ...  was." 

"But why ..."  suddenly felt dizzy, my vision swimming. 

"Don't strain yourself," Grover said. "Here." 

He helped  hold my glass and put  straw  my lips. 

 recoiled at  taste, because  was expecting apple juice. It wasn't that at all. It was chocolate-chip 
cookies. Liquid cookies. And not just any cookies — my mom's homemade blue chocolate-chip cookies, 
buttery and hot, with  chips still melting. Drinking , my whole body felt warm and good, full of 
energy. My grief didn't go away, but  felt as if my mom had just brushed her hand against my cheek, 
given   cookie  way she used  when  was small, and told  everything was going  be okay. 

Before  knew , 'd drained  glass.  stared into , sure 'd just had  warm drink, but  ice 
cubes hadn't even melted. 

"Was  good?" Grover asked. 
 nodded. 

"What did  taste like?" He sounded so wistful,  felt guilty. 



"Sorry,"  said. " should've let  taste." 

His eyes got wide. "No! That's not what  meant.  just . . . wondered." 

"Chocolate-chip cookies,"  said. "My mom's. Homemade." 

He sighed. "And how do  feel?" 

"Like  could throw Nancy Bobofit  hundred yards." 

"That's good," he said. "That's good.  don't think  could risk drinking any more of that stuff." 
"What do  mean?" 

He took  empty glass from  gingerly, as if  were dynamite, and set  back   table. 
"Come . Chiron and Mr. D are waiting." 

The porch wrapped all  way around  farmhouse. 

My legs felt wobbly, trying  walk that far. Grover offered  carry  Minotaur horn, but  held  
 . 'd paid for that souvenir  hard way.  wasn't going  let  go. 

As we came around  opposite end of  house,  caught my breath. 

We must've been   north shore of Long Island, because   side of  house,  valley 
marched all  way up   water, which glittered about  mile   distance. Between here and 
there,  simply couldn't process everything  was seeing. The landscape was dotted with buildings that 
looked like ancient Greek architecture — an open-air pavilion, an amphitheater,  circular arena — except 
that  all looked brand new, their white marble columns sparkling   sun. In  nearby sandpit,  
dozen high school-age kids and satyrs played volleyball. Canoes glided across  small lake. Kids  
bright orange T-shirts like Grover 's were chasing each other around  cluster of cabins nestled   
woods. Some shot targets at an archery range. Others rode horses down  wooded trail, and, unless  
was hallucinating, some of their horses had wings. 

Down at  end of  porch, two men sat across from each other at  card table. The blond-haired 
girl who'd spoon-fed  popcorn-flavored pudding was leaning   porch rail next  them. 

The man facing  was small, but porky. He had  red nose, big watery eyes, and curly hair so black 
 was almost purple. He looked like those paintings of baby angels — what do  call them, hubbubs? 
No, cherubs. That's . He looked like  cherub who'd turned middle-aged   trailer park. He wore  
tiger-pattern Hawaiian shirt, and he would've fit right  at one of Gabe's poker parties, except  got  
feeling  guy could've out-gambled even my stepfather. 

"That's Mr. D," Grover murmured  . "He's  camp director. Be polite. The girl, that's 
Annabeth Chase. She's just  camper, but she's been here longer than just about anybody. And  
already know Chiron. . . ." 

He pointed at  guy whose back was  . 

First,  realized he was sitting   wheelchair. Then  recognized  tweed jacket,  thinning 
brown hair,  scraggly beard. 

"Mr. Brunner!"  cried. 

The Latin teacher turned and smiled at . His eyes had that mischievous glint  sometimes got 
 class when he pulled  pop quiz and made all  multiple choice answers B. 
"Ah, good, Percy," he said. "Now we have four for pinochle." 

He offered   chair   right of Mr. D, who looked at  with bloodshot eyes and heaved  
great sigh. "Oh,  suppose  must say . Welcome  Camp Half-Blood. There. Now, don't expect   
be glad  see ." 

"Uh, thanks."  scooted  little farther away from him because, if there was one thing  had learned 



from living with Gabe,  was how  tell when an adult has been hitting  happy juice. If Mr. D was  
stranger  alcohol,  was  satyr. 

"Annabeth?" Mr. Brunner called   blond girl. 

She came forward and Mr. Brunner introduced us. "This young lady nursed  back  health, 
Percy. Annabeth, my dear, why don't  go check  Percy's bunk? We'll be putting him  cabin 
eleven for now." 

Annabeth said, "Sure, Chiron." 

She was probably my age, maybe  couple of inches taller, and  whole lot more athletic looking. 
With her deep tan and her curly blond hair, she was almost exactly what  thought  stereotypical 
California girl would look like, except her eyes ruined  image. They were startling gray, like storm 
clouds; pretty, but intimidating, too, as if she were analyzing  best way  take  down   fight. 

She glanced at  minotaur horn  my hands, then back at .  imagined she was going  say, 
You killed  minotaur! or Wow, 're so awesome! or something like that. 

Instead she said, "You drool when  sleep." 

Then she sprinted off down  lawn, her blond hair flying behind her. 

"So,"  said, anxious  change  subject. "You, uh, work here, Mr. Brunner?" 

"Not Mr. Brunner,"  ex-Mr. Brunner said. " afraid that was  pseudonym. You may call  
Chiron." 

"Okay." Totally confused,  looked at  director. "And Mr. D . . . does that stand for something?" 
Mr. D stopped shuffling  cards. He looked at  like 'd just belched loudly. "Young man, names 
are powerful things. You don't just go around using them for no reason." 

"Oh. Right. Sorry." 

" must say, Percy," Chiron-Brunner broke , " glad  see  alive.  been  long time since 
've made  house call   potential camper. 'd hate  think 've wasted my time." 

"House call?" 

"My year at Yancy Academy,  instruct . We have satyrs at most schools, of course, keeping  
lookout. But Grover alerted  as soon as he met . He sensed  were something special, so  
decided  come upstate.  convinced  other Latin teacher  . . . ah, take  leave of absence." 

 tried  remember  beginning of  school year. It seemed like so long ago, but  did have  
fuzzy memory of there being another Latin teacher my first week at Yancy. Then, without explanation, 
he had disappeared and Mr. Brunner had taken  class. 

"You came  Yancy just  teach ?"  asked. 

Chiron nodded. "Honestly,  wasn't sure about  at first. We contacted your mother, let her know 
we were keeping an eye    case  were ready for Camp Half-Blood. But  still had so much 
 learn. Nevertheless,  made  here alive, and that's always  first test." 

"Grover," Mr. D said impatiently, "are  playing or not?" 

"Yes, sir!" Grover trembled as he took  fourth chair, though  didn't know why he should be so 
afraid of  pudgy little man   tiger-print Hawaiian shirt. 

"You do know how  play pinochle?" Mr. D eyed  suspiciously. 
" afraid not,"  said. 
" afraid not, sir," he said. 

"Sir,"  repeated.  was liking  camp director less and less. 

"Well," he told , " , along with gladiator fighting and Pac-Man, one of  greatest games ever 



invented by humans.  would expect all civilized young men  know  rules." 
" sure  boy can learn," Chiron said. 

"Please,"  said, "what   place? What   doing here? Mr. Brun — Chiron — why would  go 
 Yancy Academy just  teach ?" 

Mr. D snorted. " asked  same question." 

The camp director dealt  cards. Grover flinched every time one landed  his pile. 

Chiron smiled at  sympathetically,  way he used   Latin class, as if  let  know that no 
matter what my average was,  was his star student. He expected   have  right answer. 

"Percy," he said. "Did your mother tell  nothing?" 

"She said ..."  remembered her sad eyes, looking out over  sea. "She told  she was afraid  
send  here, even though my father had wanted her . She said that once  was here,  probably 
couldn't leave. She wanted  keep  close  her." 

"Typical," Mr. D said. "That's how  usually get killed. Young man, are  bidding or not?" 

"What?"  asked. 

He explained, impatiently, how  bid  pinochle, and so  did. 

" afraid there's too much  tell," Chiron said. " afraid our usual orientation film won't be 
sufficient." 

"Orientation film?"  asked. 

"No," Chiron decided. "Well, Percy. You know your friend Grover   satyr. You know" — he 
pointed   horn   shoe box — "that  have killed  Minotaur. No small feat, either, lad. What 
 may not know  that great powers are at work  your life. Gods —  forces  call  Greek 
gods — are very much alive." 

 stared at  others around  table. 

 waited for somebody  yell, Not! But all  got was Mr. D yelling, "Oh,  royal marriage. Trick! 
Trick!" He cackled as he tallied up his points. 

"Mr. D," Grover asked timidly, "if 're not going  eat , could  have your Diet Coke can?" 

"Eh? Oh, all right." 

Grover bit  huge shard out of  empty aluminum can and chewed  mournfully. 
"Wait,"  told Chiron. "You're telling  there's such  thing as God." 

"Well, now," Chiron said. "God — capital G, God. That's  different matter altogether. We shan't 
deal with  metaphysical." 

"Metaphysical? But  were just talking about — " 

"Ah, gods, plural, as , great beings that control  forces of nature and human endeavors:  
immortal gods of Olympus. That's  smaller matter." 
"Smaller?" 

"Yes, quite. The gods we discussed  Latin class." 

"Zeus,"  said. "Hera. Apollo. You mean them." 

And there  was again — distant thunder   cloudless day. 

"Young man," said Mr. D, " would really be less casual about throwing those names around, if  
were ." 

"But  stories,"  said. "They're — myths,  explain lightning and  seasons and stuff. 
They're what people believed before there was science." 



"Science!" Mr. D scoffed. "And tell , Perseus Jackson" —  flinched when he said my real name, 
which  never told anybody — "what will people think of your 'science' two thousand years from now?" 
Mr. D continued. "Hmm? They will call  primitive mumbo jumbo. That's what. Oh,  love mortals — 
 have absolutely no sense of perspective. They think 've come so-o-o far. And have , 
Chiron? Look at  boy and tell ." 

 wasn't liking Mr. D much, but there was something about  way he called  mortal, as if ... he 
wasn't. It was enough  put  lump  my throat,  suggest why Grover was dutifully minding his 
cards, chewing his soda can, and keeping his mouth shut. 

"Percy," Chiron said, " may choose  believe or not, but  fact  that immortal means 
immortal. Can  imagine that for  moment, never dying? Never fading? Existing, just as  are, for 
all time?" 

 was about  answer, off  top of my head, that  sounded like  pretty good deal, but  tone of 
Chiron's voice made  hesitate. 

"You mean, whether people believed   or not,"  said. 

"Exactly," Chiron agreed. "If  were  god, how would  like being called  myth, an old story 
 explain lightning? What if  told , Perseus Jackson, that someday people would call   myth, 
just created  explain how little boys can get over losing their mothers?" 

My heart pounded. He was trying  make  angry for some reason, but  wasn't going  let him.  
said, " wouldn't like . But  don't believe  gods." 

"Oh, 'd better," Mr. D murmured. "Before one of them incinerates ." 
Grover said, "P-please, sir. He's just lost his mother. He's  shock." 

"A lucky thing, too," Mr. D grumbled, playing  card. "Bad enough  confined   miserable 
job, working with boys who don't even believe!" 

He waved his hand and  goblet appeared   table, as if  sunlight had bent, momentarily, and 
woven  air into glass. The goblet filled itself with red wine. 
My jaw dropped, but Chiron hardly looked up. 
"Mr. D," he warned, "your restrictions." 
Mr. D looked at  wine and feigned surprise. 
"Dear ." He looked at  sky and yelled, "Old habits! Sorry!" 
More thunder. 

Mr. D waved his hand again, and  wineglass changed into  fresh can of Diet Coke. He sighed 
unhappily, popped  top of  soda, and went back  his card game. 

Chiron winked at . "Mr. D offended his father  while back, took  fancy   wood nymph who 
had been declared off-limits." 

"A wood nymph,"  repeated, still staring at  Diet Coke can like  was from outer space. 

"Yes," Mr. D confessed. "Father loves  punish . The first time, Prohibition. Ghastly! Absolutely 
horrid ten years! The second time — well, she really was pretty, and  couldn't stay away —  second 
time, he sent  here. Half-Blood Hill. Summer camp for brats like . 'Be  better influence,' he told 
. 'Work with youths rather than tearing them down.' Ha! Absolutely unfair." 

Mr. D sounded about six years old, like  pouting little kid. 

"And ..."  stammered, "your father  . . ." 

"Di immortales, Chiron," Mr. D said. " thought  taught  boy  basics. My father  Zeus, of 
course." 



 ran through D names from Greek mythology. Wine. The skin of  tiger. The satyrs that all seemed 
 work here. The way Grover cringed, as if Mr. D were his master. 

"You're Dionysus,"  said. "The god of wine." 

Mr. D rolled his eyes. "What do  say, these days, Grover? Do  children say, 'Well, duh!'?" 
"Y-yes, Mr. D." 

"Then, well, duh! Percy Jackson. Did  think  was Aphrodite, perhaps?" 
"You're  god." 
"Yes, child." 
"A god. You." 

He turned  look at  straight , and  saw  kind of purplish fire  his eyes,  hint that  
whiny, plump little man was only showing   tiniest bit of his true nature.  saw visions of grape 
vines choking unbelievers  death, drunken warriors insane with battle lust, sailors screaming as their 
hands turned  flippers, their faces elongating into dolphin snouts.  knew that if  pushed him, Mr. D 
would show  worse things. He would plant  disease  my brain that would leave  wearing  
straitjacket   rubber room for  rest of my life. 

"Would  like  test , child?" he said quietly. 

"No. No, sir." 

The fire died  little. He turned back  his card game. " believe  win." 

"Not quite, Mr. D," Chiron said. He set down  straight, tallied  points, and said, "The game goes 
 ." 

 thought Mr. D was going  vaporize Chiron right out of his wheelchair, but he just sighed through 
his nose, as if he were used  being beaten by  Latin teacher. He got up, and Grover rose, too. 

" tired," Mr. D said. " believe 'll take  nap before  sing-along tonight. But first, Grover, we 
need  talk, again, about your less-than-perfect performance   assignment." 
Grover 's face beaded with sweat. "Y-yes, sir." 

Mr. D turned  . "Cabin eleven, Percy Jackson. And mind your manners." 
He swept into  farmhouse, Grover following miserably. 
"Will Grover be okay?"  asked Chiron. 

Chiron nodded, though he looked  bit troubled. "Old Dionysus isn't really mad. He just hates his 
job. He's been ... ah, grounded,  guess  would say, and he can't stand waiting another century 
before he's allowed  go back  Olympus." 

"Mount Olympus,"  said. "You're telling  there really   palace there?" 

"Well now, there's Mount Olympus  Greece. And then there's  home of  gods,  
convergence point of their powers, which did indeed used  be  Mount Olympus.  still called 
Mount Olympus, out of respect   old ways, but  palace moves, Percy, just as  gods do." 

"You mean  Greek gods are here? Like ...  America?" 
"Well, certainly. The gods move with  heart of  West." 
"The what?" 

"Come now, Percy. What  call 'Western civilization.' Do  think  just an abstract concept? 
No,   living force. A collective consciousness that has burned bright for thousands of years. The 
gods are part of . You might even say  are  source of , or at least,  are tied so tightly   
that  couldn't possibly fade, not unless all of Western civilization were obliterated. The fire started 
 Greece. Then, as  well know — or as  hope  know, since  passed my course —  heart of 



 fire moved  Rome, and so did  gods. Oh, different names, perhaps — Jupiter for Zeus, Venus for 
Aphrodite, and so  — but  same forces,  same gods." 

"And then  died." 

"Died? No. Did  West die? The gods simply moved,  Germany,  France,  Spain, for  while. 
Wherever  flame was brightest,  gods were there. They spent several centuries  England. All  
need  do  look at  architecture. People do not forget  gods. Every place 've ruled, for  
last three thousand years,  can see them  paintings,  statues,   most important buildings. 
And yes, Percy, of course  are now  your United States. Look at your symbol,  eagle of Zeus. 
Look at  statue of Prometheus  Rockefeller Center,  Greek facades of your government 
buildings  Washington.  defy   find any American city where  Olympians are not 
prominently displayed  multiple places. Like  or not — and believe , plenty of people weren't very 
fond of Rome, either — America  now  heart of  flame. It   great power of  West. And so 
Olympus  here. And we are here." 

It was all too much, especially  fact that  seemed  be included  Chiron's we, as if  were part 
of some club. 

"Who are , Chiron? Who . . . who  ?" 

Chiron smiled. He shifted his weight as if he were going  get up out of his wheelchair, but  knew 
that was impossible. He was paralyzed from  waist down. 

"Who are ?" he mused. "Well, that's  question we all want answered, isn't ? But for now, we 
should get   bunk  cabin eleven. There will be new friends  meet. And plenty of time for lessons 
tomorrow. Besides, there will be s'mores at  campfire tonight, and  simply adore chocolate." 

And then he did rise from his wheelchair. But there was something odd about  way he did . His 
blanket fell away from his legs, but  legs didn't move. His waist kept getting longer, rising above his 
belt. At first,  thought he was wearing very long, white velvet underwear, but as he kept rising out of 
 chair, taller than any man,  realized that  velvet underwear wasn't underwear;  was  front of 
an animal, muscle and sinew under coarse white fur. And  wheelchair wasn't  chair. It was some 
kind of container, an enormous box  wheels, and  must've been magic, because there's no way  
could've held all of him. A leg came out, long and knobby-kneed, with  huge polished hoof. Then 
another front leg, then hindquarters, and then  box was empty, nothing but  metal shell with  couple 
of fake human legs attached. 

 stared at  horse who had just sprung from  wheelchair:  huge white stallion. But where its 
neck should be was  upper body of my Latin teacher, smoothly grafted   horse's trunk. 

"What  relief,"  centaur said. "'d been cooped up  there so long, my fetlocks had fallen 
asleep. Now, come, Percy Jackson. Let's meet  other campers." 


Once  got over  fact that my Latin teacher was  horse, we had  nice tour, though  was careful 
not  walk behind him. 'd done pooper-scooper patrol   Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade  few 
times, and,  sorry,  did not trust Chiron's back end  way  trusted his front. 

We passed  volleyball pit. Several of  campers nudged each other. One pointed   minotaur 
horn  was carrying. Another said, "That's him." 

Most of  campers were older than . Their satyr friends were bigger than Grover, all of them 
trotting around  orange CAMP HALF-BLOOD T-shirts, with nothing else  cover their bare shaggy 
hindquarters.  wasn't normally shy, but  way  stared at  made  uncomfortable.  felt like 
 were expecting   do  flip or something. 

 looked back at  farmhouse. It was  lot bigger than 'd realized — four stories tall, sky blue with 
white trim, like an upscale seaside resort.  was checking out  brass eagle weather vane  top when 
something caught my eye,  shadow   uppermost window of  attic gable. Something had moved 
 curtain, just for  second, and  got  distinct impression  was being watched. 

"What's up there?"  asked Chiron. 

He looked where  was pointing, and his smile faded. "Just  attic." 
"Somebody lives there?" 

"No," he said with finality. "Not  single living thing." 

 got  feeling he was being truthful. But  was also sure something had moved that curtain. 
"Come along, Percy," Chiron said, his lighthearted tone now  little forced. "Lots  see." 

We walked through  strawberry fields, where campers were picking bushels of berries while  
satyr played  tune   reed pipe. 

Chiron told   camp grew  nice crop for export  New York restaurants and Mount Olympus. 
"It pays our expenses," he explained. "And  strawberries take almost no effort." 

He said Mr. D had  effect  fruit-bearing plants:  just went crazy when he was around. It 
worked best with wine grapes, but Mr. D was restricted from growing those, so  grew strawberries 
instead. 

 watched  satyr playing his pipe. His music was causing lines of bugs  leave  strawberry 
patch  every direction, like refugees fleeing  fire.  wondered if Grover could work that kind of magic 
with music.  wondered if he was still inside  farmhouse, getting chewed out by Mr. D. 

"Grover won't get  too much trouble, will he?"  asked Chiron. " mean ... he was  good 
protector. Really." 

Chiron sighed. He shed his tweed jacket and draped  over his horse's back like  saddle. "Grover 
has big dreams, Percy. Perhaps bigger than are reasonable. To reach his goal, he must first demonstrate 
great courage by succeeding as  keeper, finding  new camper and bringing him safely  Half-Blood 
Hill." 



"But he did that!" 

" might agree with ," Chiron said. "But   not my place  judge. Dionysus and  Council of 
Cloven Elders must decide.  afraid  might not see  assignment as  success. After all, Grover 
lost   New York. Then there's  unfortunate . . . ah . . . fate of your mother. And  fact that 
Grover was unconscious when  dragged him over  property line. The council might question 
whether  shows any courage  Graver's part." 

 wanted  protest. None of what happened was Grover 's fault.  also felt really, really guilty. If  
hadn't given Grover  slip at  bus station, he might not have gotten  trouble. 
"He'll get  second chance, won't he?" 

Chiron winced. " afraid that was Graver's second chance, Percy. The council was not anxious  
give him another, either, after what happened  first time, five years ago. Olympus knows,  advised 
him  wait longer before trying again. He's still so small for his age. . . ." 

"How old  he?" 

"Oh, twenty-eight." 

"What! And he's  sixth grade?" 

"Satyrs mature half as fast as humans, Percy. Grover has been  equivalent of  middle school 
student for  past six years." 

"That's horrible." 

"Quite," Chiron agreed. "At any rate, Grover   late bloomer, even by satyr standards, and not yet 
very accomplished at woodland magic. Alas, he was anxious  pursue his dream. Perhaps now he will 
find some other career. ..." 

"That's not fair,"  said. "What happened  first time? Was  really so bad?" 

Chiron looked away quickly. "Let's move along, shall we?" 

But  wasn't quite ready  let  subject drop. Something had occurred   when Chiron talked 
about my mother's fate, as if he were intentionally avoiding  word death. The beginnings of an idea 
—  tiny, hopeful fire — started forming  my mind. 

"Chiron,"  said. "If  gods and Olympus and all that are real . . ." 
"Yes, child?" 

"Does that mean  Underworld  real, too?" 
Chiron's expression darkened. 

"Yes, child." He paused, as if choosing his words carefully. "There   place where spirits go after 
death. But for now . . . until we know more ...  would urge   put that out of your mind." 
"What do  mean, 'until we know more'?" 
"Come, Percy. Let's see  woods." 

As we got closer,  realized how huge  forest was. It took up at least  quarter of  valley, with 
trees so tall and thick,  could imagine nobody had been  there since  Native Americans. 

Chiron said, "The woods are stocked, if  care  try your luck, but go armed." 
"Stocked with what?"  asked. "Armed with what?" 

"You'll see. Capture  flag  Friday night. Do  have your own sword and shield?" 
"My own—?" 

"No," Chiron said. " don't suppose  do.  think  size five will do. 'll visit  armory later." 
 wanted  ask what kind of summer camp had an armory, but there was too much else  think 



about, so  tour continued. We saw  archery range,  canoeing lake,  stables (which Chiron 
didn't seem  like very much),  javelin range,  sing-along amphitheater, and  arena where 
Chiron said  held sword and spear fights. 

"Sword and spear fights?"  asked. 

"Cabin challenges and all that," he explained. "Not lethal. Usually. Oh, yes, and there's  mess 
hall." 

Chiron pointed  an outdoor pavilion framed  white Grecian columns   hill overlooking  
sea. There were  dozen stone picnic tables. No roof. No walls. 

"What do  do when  rains?"  asked. 

Chiron looked at  as if 'd gone  little weird. "We still have  eat, don't we?"  decided  drop 
 subject. 

Finally, he showed   cabins. There were twelve of them, nestled   woods by  lake. 
They were arranged   U, with two at  base and five   row  either side. And  were without 
doubt  most bizarre collection of buildings 'd ever seen. 

Except for  fact that each had  large brass number above  door (odds   left side, evens 
  right),  looked absolutely nothing alike. Number nine had smokestacks, like  tiny factory. 
Number four had tomato vines   walls and  roof made out of real grass. Seven seemed  be made 
of solid gold, which gleamed so much   sunlight  was almost impossible  look at. They all faced 
 commons area about  size of  soccer field, dotted with Greek statues, fountains, flower beds, and  
couple of basketball hoops (which were more my speed). 

In  center of  field was  huge stone-lined firepit. Even though  was  warm afternoon,  
hearth smoldered. A girl about nine years old was tending  flames, poking  coals with  stick. 

The pair of cabins at  head of  field, numbers one and two, looked like his-and-hers 
mausoleums, big white marble boxes with heavy columns  front. Cabin one was  biggest and 
bulkiest of  twelve. Its polished bronze doors shimmered like  hologram, so that from different 
angles lightning bolts seemed  streak across them. Cabin two was more graceful somehow, with 
slimmer columns garlanded with pomegranates and flowers. The walls were carved with images of 
peacocks. 

"Zeus and Hera?"  guessed. 
"Correct," Chiron said. 
"Their cabins look empty." 

"Several of  cabins are. That's true. No one ever stays  one or two." 
Okay. So each cabin had  different god, like  mascot. 
Twelve cabins for  twelve Olympians. But why would some be empty? 
 stopped  front of  first cabin   left, cabin three. 

It wasn't high and mighty like cabin one, but long and low and solid. The outer walls were of rough 
gray stone studded with pieces of seashell and coral, as if  slabs had been hewn straight from  
bottom of  ocean floor.  peeked inside  open doorway and Chiron said, "Oh,  wouldn't do that!" 

Before he could pull  back,  caught  salty scent of  interior, like  wind   shore at 
Montauk. The interior walls glowed like abalone. There were six empty bunk beds with silk sheets 
turned down. But there was no sign anyone had ever slept there. The place felt so sad and lonely,  was 
glad when Chiron put his hand  my shoulder and said, "Come along, Percy." 

Most of  other cabins were crowded with campers. 

Number five was bright red —  real nasty paint job, as if  color had been splashed  with 



buckets and fists. The roof was lined with barbed wire. A stuffed wild boar's head hung over  
doorway, and its eyes seemed  follow . Inside  could see  bunch of mean-looking kids, both girls 
and boys, arm wrestling and arguing with each other while rock music blared. The loudest was  girl 
maybe thirteen or fourteen. She wore  size XXXL CAMP HALFBLOOD T-shirt under  camouflage 
jacket. She zeroed    and gave  an evil sneer. She reminded  of Nancy Bobofit, though  
camper girl was much bigger and tougher looking, and her hair was long and stringy, and brown instead 
of red. 

 kept walking, trying  stay clear of Chiron's hooves. "We haven't seen any other centaurs,"  
observed. 

"No," said Chiron sadly. "My kinsmen are  wild and barbaric folk,  afraid. You might encounter 
them   wilderness, or at major sporting events. But  won't see any here." 
"You said your name was Chiron. Are  really . . ." 

He smiled down at . "The Chiron from  stories? Trainer of Hercules and all that? Yes, Percy,  
." 

"But, shouldn't  be dead?" 

Chiron paused, as if  question intrigued him. " honestly don't know about should be. The truth 
,  can 't be dead. You see, eons ago  gods granted my wish.  could continue  work  loved.  
could be  teacher of heroes as long as humanity needed .  gained much from that wish . . . and  
gave up much. But  still here, so  can only assume  still needed." 

 thought about being  teacher for three thousand years. It wouldn't have made my Top Ten Things 
 Wish For list. 

"Doesn't  ever get boring?" 

"No, no," he said. "Horribly depressing, at times, but never boring." 
"Why depressing?" 

Chiron seemed  turn hard of hearing again. 

"Oh, look," he said. "Annabeth  waiting for us." 

* * * 

The blond girl 'd met at  Big House was reading  book  front of  last cabin   left, 
number eleven. 

When we reached her, she looked  over critically, like she was still thinking about how much  
drooled. 

 tried  see what she was reading, but  couldn't make out  title.  thought my dyslexia was 
acting up. Then  realized  title wasn't even English. The letters looked Greek  .  mean, literally 
Greek. There were pictures of temples and statues and different kinds of columns, like those  an 
architecture book. 

"Annabeth," Chiron said, " have masters' archery class at noon. Would  take Percy from here?" 
"Yes, sir." 

"Cabin eleven," Chiron told , gesturing toward  doorway. "Make yourself at home." 

Out of all  cabins, eleven looked  most like  regular old summer camp cabin, with  
emphasis  old. The threshold was worn down,  brown paint peeling. Over  doorway was one of 
those doctor's symbols,  winged pole with two snakes wrapped around . What did  call  . . . ? A 
caduceus. 

Inside,  was packed with people, both boys and girls, way more than  number of bunk beds. 



Sleeping bags were spread all over   floor. It looked like  gym where  Red Cross had set up an 
evacuation center. 

Chiron didn't go . The door was too low for him. But when  campers saw him  all stood 
and bowed respectfully. 

"Well, then," Chiron said. "Good luck, Percy. 'll see  at dinner." 
He galloped away toward  archery range. 

 stood   doorway, looking at  kids. They weren't bowing anymore. They were staring at , 
sizing  up.  knew  routine. 'd gone through  at enough schools. 

"Well?" Annabeth prompted. "Go ." 

So naturally  tripped coming   door and made  total fool of myself. There were some snickers 
from  campers, but none of them said anything. 

Annabeth announced, "Percy Jackson, meet cabin eleven." 
"Regular or undetermined?" somebody asked. 
 didn't know what  say, but Annabeth said, "Undetermined." 
Everybody groaned. 

A guy who was  little older than  rest came forward. "Now, now, campers. That's what we're 
here for. Welcome, Percy. You can have that spot   floor, right over there." 

The guy was about nineteen, and he looked pretty cool. He was tall and muscular, with short- 
cropped sandy hair and  friendly smile. He wore an orange tank top, cutoffs, sandals, and  leather 
necklace with five different-colored clay beads. The only thing unsettling about his appearance was  
thick white scar that ran from just beneath his right eye  his jaw, like an old knife slash. 

"This  Luke," Annabeth said, and her voice sounded different somehow.  glanced over and 
could've sworn she was blushing. She saw  looking, and her expression hardened again. "He's your 
counselor for now." 

"For now?"  asked. 

"You're undetermined," Luke explained patiently. "They don't know what cabin  put  , so 
're here. Cabin eleven takes all newcomers, all visitors. Naturally, we would. Hermes, our patron,  
 god of travelers." 

 looked at  tiny section of floor 'd given .  had nothing  put there  mark  as my own, 
no luggage, no clothes, no sleeping bag. Just  Minotaur's horn.  thought about setting that down, but 
then  remembered that Hermes was also  god of thieves. 

 looked around at  campers' faces, some sullen and suspicious, some grinning stupidly, some 
eyeing  as if  were waiting for  chance  pick my pockets. 

"How long will  be here?"  asked. 

"Good question," Luke said. "Until 're determined." 

"How long will that take?" 

The campers all laughed. 

"Come ," Annabeth told . "'ll show   volleyball court." 
"'ve already seen ." 
"Come ." 

She grabbed my wrist and dragged  outside.  could hear  kids of cabin eleven laughing behind 

. 

When we were  few feet away, Annabeth said, "Jackson,  have  do better than that." 



"What?" 

She rolled her eyes and mumbled under her breath, " can't believe  thought  were  one." 
"What's your problem?"  was getting angry now. "All  know ,  kill some bull guy — " 
"Don't talk like that!" Annabeth told . "You know how many kids at  camp wish 'd had 
your chance?" 

"To get killed?" 

"To fight  Minotaur! What do  think we train for?" 

 shook my head. "Look, if  thing  fought really was  Minotaur,  same one   stories . . 
"Yes." 

"Then there's only one." 
"Yes." 

"And he died, like,  gajillion years ago, right? Theseus killed him   labyrinth. So . . ." 
"Monsters don't die, Percy. They can be killed. But  don't die." 
"Oh, thanks. That clears  up." 

"They don't have souls, like  and . You can dispel them for  while, maybe even for  whole 
lifetime if 're lucky. But  are primal forces. Chiron calls them archetypes. Eventually,  re- 
form." 

 thought about Mrs. Dodds. "You mean if  killed one, accidentally, with  sword — " 
"The Fur ...  mean, your math teacher. That's right. She's still out there. You just made her very, 
very mad." 

"How did  know about Mrs. Dodds?" 
"You talk  your sleep." 

"You almost called her something. A Fury? They're Hades' torturers, right?" 

Annabeth glanced nervously at  ground, as if she expected   open up and swallow her. "You 
shouldn't call them by name, even here. We call them  Kindly Ones, if we have  speak of them at 
all." 

"Look,  there anything we can say without  thundering?"  sounded whiny, even  myself, but 
right then  didn't care. "Why do  have  stay  cabin eleven, anyway? Why  everybody so crowded 
together? There are plenty of empty bunks right over there." 

 pointed   first few cabins, and Annabeth turned pale. "You don't just choose  cabin, Percy. It 
depends  who your parents are. Or . . . your parent." 

She stared at , waiting for   get . 

"My mom  Sally Jackson,"  said. "She works at  candy store  Grand Central Station. At least, 
she used ." 

" sorry about your mom, Percy. But that's not what  mean.  talking about your other parent. 
Your dad." 

"He's dead.  never knew him." 

Annabeth sighed. Clearly, she'd had  conversation before with other kids. "Your father's not 
dead, Percy." 

"How can  say that? You know him?" 
"No, of course not." 



"Then how can  say — " 

"Because  know . You wouldn't be here if  weren't one of us." 
"You don't know anything about ." 

"No?" She raised an eyebrow. " bet  moved around from school  school.  bet  were 
kicked out of  lot of them." 

"How—" 

"Diagnosed with dyslexia. Probably ADHD, too." 

 tried  swallow my embarrassment. "What does that have  do with anything?" 

"Taken together,  almost  sure sign. The letters float off  page when  read, right? That's 
because your mind  hardwired for ancient Greek. And  ADHD — 're impulsive, can't sit still  
 classroom. That's your battlefield reflexes. In  real fight, 'd keep  alive. As for  attention 
problems, that's because  see too much, Percy, not too little. Your senses are better than  regular 
mortal's. Of course  teachers want  medicated. Most of them are monsters. They don't want  
seeing them for what  are." 

"You sound like . . .  went through  same thing?" 

"Most of  kids here did. If  weren't like us,  couldn't have survived  Minotaur, much 
less  ambrosia and nectar." 

"Ambrosia and nectar." 

"The food and drink we were giving   make  better. That stuff would 've killed  normal 
kid. It would've turned your blood  fire and your bones  sand and 'd be dead. Face . You're  
half-blood." 

A half-blood. 

 was reeling with so many questions  didn't know where  start. 
Then  husky voice yelled, "Well! A newbie!" 

 looked over. The big girl from  ugly red cabin was sauntering toward us. She had three other 
girls behind her, all big and ugly and mean looking like her, all wearing camo jackets. 

"Clarisse," Annabeth sighed. "Why don't  go polish your spear or something?" 

"Sure, Miss Princess,"  big girl said. "So  can run  through with  Friday night." 

"Erre es korakas!" Annabeth said, which  somehow understood was Greek for 'Go   crows!' 
though  had  feeling  was  worse curse than  sounded. "You don't stand  chance." 

"We'll pulverize ," Clarisse said, but her eye twitched. Perhaps she wasn't sure she could follow 
through   threat. She turned toward . "Who's  little runt?" 

"Percy Jackson," Annabeth said, "meet Clarisse, Daughter of Ares." 

 blinked. "Like ...  war god?" 

Clarisse sneered. "You got  problem with that?" 

"No,"  said, recovering my wits. "It explains  bad smell." 

Clarisse growled. "We got an initiation ceremony for newbies, Prissy." 

"Percy." 

"Whatever. Come , 'll show ." 
"Clarisse — " Annabeth tried  say. 
"Stay out of , wise girl." 

Annabeth looked pained, but she did stay out of , and  didn't really want her help.  was  new 



kid.  had  earn my own rep. 

 handed Annabeth my minotaur horn and got ready  fight, but before  knew , Clarisse had  
by  neck and was dragging  toward  cinder-block building that  knew immediately was  
bathroom. 

 was kicking and punching. 'd been  plenty of fights before, but  big girl Clarisse had hands 
like iron. She dragged  into  girls' bathroom. There was  line of toilets  one side and  line of 
shower stalls down  other. It smelled just like any public bathroom, and  was thinking — as much as  
could think with Clarisse ripping my hair out — that if  place belonged   gods,  should've 
been able  afford classier johns. 

Clarisse 's friends were all laughing, and  was trying  find  strength 'd used  fight  
Minotaur, but  just wasn't there. 

"Like he's 'Big Three' material," Clarisse said as she pushed  toward one of  toilets. "Yeah, 
right. Minotaur probably fell over laughing, he was so stupid looking." 

Her friends snickered. 

Annabeth stood   corner, watching through her fingers. 

Clarisse bent  over  my knees and started pushing my head toward  toilet bowl. It reeked 
like rusted pipes and, well, like what goes into toilets.  strained  keep my head up.  was looking at 
 scummy water, thinking,  will not go into that.  won't. 

Then something happened.  felt  tug   pit of my stomach.  heard  plumbing rumble,  
pipes shudder. Clarisse 's grip  my hair loosened. Water shot out of  toilet, making an arc straight 
over my head, and  next thing  knew,  was sprawled   bathroom tiles with Clarisse screaming 
behind . 

 turned just as water blasted out of  toilet again, hitting Clarisse straight   face so hard  
pushed her down onto her butt. The water stayed  her like  spray from  fire hose, pushing her 
backward into  shower stall. 

She struggled, gasping, and her friends started coming toward her. But then  other toilets 
exploded, too, and six more streams of toilet water blasted them back. The showers acted up, too, and 
together all  fixtures sprayed  camouflage girls right out of  bathroom, spinning them around 
like pieces of garbage being washed away. 

As soon as  were out  door,  felt  tug  my gut lessen, and  water shut off as quickly 
as  had started. 

The entire bathroom was flooded. Annabeth hadn't been spared. She was dripping wet, but she 
hadn't been pushed out  door. She was standing  exactly  same place, staring at   shock. 

 looked down and realized  was sitting   only dry spot   whole room. There was  circle 
of dry floor around .  didn't have one drop of water  my clothes. Nothing. 

 stood up, my legs shaky. 
Annabeth said, "How did  . . ." 
" don't know." 

We walked   door. Outside, Clarisse and her friends were sprawled   mud, and  bunch of 
other campers had gathered around  gawk. Clarisse's hair was flattened across her face. Her 
camouflage jacket was sopping and she smelled like sewage. She gave   look of absolute hatred. 
"You are dead, new boy. You are totally dead." 

 probably should have let  go, but  said, "You want  gargle with toilet water again, Clarisse? 
Close your mouth." 



Her friends had  hold her back. They dragged her toward cabin five, while  other campers made 
way  avoid her flailing feet. 

Annabeth stared at .  couldn't tell whether she was just grossed out or angry at  for dousing 

her. 

"What?"  demanded. "What are  thinking?" 

" thinking," she said, "that  want   my team for capture  flag." 


Word of  bathroom incident spread immediately. Wherever  went, campers pointed at  and 
murmured something about toilet water. Or maybe  were just staring at Annabeth, who was still 
pretty much dripping wet. 

She showed   few more places:  metal shop (where kids were forging their own swords),  
arts-and-crafts room (where satyrs were sandblasting  giant marble statue of  goat-man), and  
climbing wall, which actually consisted of two facing walls that shook violently, dropped boulders, 
sprayed lava, and clashed together if  didn't get   top fast enough. 

Finally we returned   canoeing lake, where  trail led back   cabins. 
"'ve got training  do," Annabeth said flatly. "Dinner's at seven-thirty. Just follow your cabin  
 mess hall." 

"Annabeth,  sorry about  toilets." 

"Whatever." 

"It wasn't my fault." 

She looked at  skeptically, and  realized  was my fault. 'd made water shoot out of  
bathroom fixtures.  didn't understand how. But  toilets had responded  .  had become one with 
 plumbing. 

"You need  talk   Oracle," Annabeth said. 

"Who?" 

"Not who. What. The Oracle. 'll ask Chiron." 

 stared into  lake, wishing somebody would give   straight answer for once. 

 wasn't expecting anybody  be looking back at  from  bottom, so my heart skipped  beat 
when  noticed two teenage girls sitting cross-legged at  base of  pier, about twenty feet below. 
They wore blue jeans and shimmering green T-shirts, and their brown hair floated loose around their 
shoulders as minnows darted  and out. They smiled and waved as if  were  long-lost friend. 

 didn't know what else  do.  waved back. 

"Don't encourage them," Annabeth warned. "Naiads are terrible flirts." 

"Naiads,"  repeated, feeling completely overwhelmed. "That's .  want  go home now." 

Annabeth frowned. "Don't  get , Percy? You are home. This   only safe place  earth for 
kids like us." 

"You mean, mentally disturbed kids?" 

" mean not human. Not totally human, anyway. Half-human." 
"Half-human and half-what?" 
" think  know." 

 didn't want  admit , but  was afraid  did.  felt  tingling  my limbs,  sensation  sometimes 



felt when my mom talked about my dad. 
"God,"  said. "Half-god." 

Annabeth nodded. "Your father isn't dead, Percy. He's one of  Olympians." 
"That's . . . crazy." 

"Is ? What's  most common thing gods did   old stories? They ran around falling  love 
with humans and having kids with them. Do  think 've changed their habits   last few 
millennia?" 

"But those are just — "  almost said myths again. Then  remembered Chiron's warning that  two 
thousand years,  might be considered  myth. "But if all  kids here are half-gods — " 

"Demigods," Annabeth said. "That's  official term. Or half-bloods." 
"Then who's your dad?" 

Her hands tightened around  pier railing.  got  feeling 'd just trespassed   sensitive 
subject. 

"My dad   professor at West Point," she said. " haven't seen him since  was very small. He 
teaches American history." 

"He's human." 

"What? You assume  has  be  male god who finds  human female attractive? How sexist  
that?" 

"Who's your mom, then?" 
"Cabin six." 
"Meaning?" 

Annabeth straightened. "Athena. Goddess of wisdom and battle." 
Okay,  thought. Why not? 
"And my dad?" 

"Undetermined," Annabeth said, "like  told  before. Nobody knows." 
"Except my mother. She knew." 

"Maybe not, Percy. Gods don't always reveal their identities." 
"My dad would have. He loved her." 

Annabeth gave   cautious look. She didn't want  burst my bubble. "Maybe 're right. 
Maybe he'll send  sign. That's  only way  know for sure: your father has  send   sign 
claiming  as his son. Sometimes  happens." 

"You mean sometimes  doesn't?" 

Annabeth ran her palm along  rail. "The gods are busy. They have  lot of kids and  don't 
always . . . Well, sometimes  don't care about us, Percy. They ignore us." 

 thought about some of  kids 'd seen   Hermes cabin, teenagers who looked sullen and 
depressed, as if  were waiting for  call that would never come. 'd known kids like that at Yancy 
Academy, shuffled off  boarding school by rich parents who didn't have  time  deal with them. 
But gods should behave better. 

"So  stuck here,"  said. "That's ? For  rest of my life?" 

"It depends," Annabeth said. "Some campers only stay  summer. If 're  child of Aphrodite or 
Demeter, 're probably not  real powerful force. The monsters might ignore , so  can get by 
with  few months of summer training and live   mortal world  rest of  year. But for some of 



us,  too dangerous  leave. We're year-rounders. In  mortal world, we attract monsters. They 
sense us. They come  challenge us. Most of  time,  ignore us until we're old enough  cause 
trouble — about ten or eleven years old, but after that, most demigods either make their way here, or  
get killed off. A few manage  survive   outside world and become famous. Believe , if  told 
  names, 'd know them. Some don't even realize  demigods. But very, very few are 
like that." 

"So monsters can't get  here?" 

Annabeth shook her head. "Not unless  intentionally stocked   woods or specially 
summoned by somebody   inside." 

"Why would anybody want  summon  monster?" 
"Practice fights. Practical jokes." 
"Practical jokes?" 

"The point ,  borders are sealed  keep mortals and monsters out. From  outside, mortals 
look into  valley and see nothing unusual, just  strawberry farm." 
"So . . . 're  year-rounder?" 

Annabeth nodded. From under  collar of her T-shirt she pulled  leather necklace with five clay 
beads of different colors. It was just like Luke's, except Annabeth's also had  big gold ring strung  , 
like  college ring. 

"'ve been here since  was seven," she said. "Every August,   last day of summer session,  
get  bead for surviving another year. 've been here longer than most of  counselors, and  all 
 college." 

"Why did  come so young?" 

She twisted  ring  her necklace. "None of your business." 

"Oh."  stood there for  minute  uncomfortable silence. "So ...  could just walk out of here right 
now if  wanted ?" 

"It would be suicide, but  could, with Mr. D's or Chiron's permission. But  wouldn't give 
permission until  end of  summer session unless ..." 

"Unless?" 

"You were granted  quest. But that hardly ever happens. The last time . . ." 
Her voice trailed off.  could tell from her tone that  last time hadn't gone well. 
"Back   sick room,"  said, "when  were feeding  that stuff — " 
"Ambrosia." 

"Yeah. You asked  something about  summer solstice." 
Annabeth's shoulders tensed. "So  do know something?" 

"Well ... no. Back at my old school,  overheard Grover and Chiron talking about . Grover 
mentioned  summer solstice. He said something like we didn't have much time, because of  
deadline. What did that mean?" 

She clenched her fists. " wish  knew. Chiron and  satyrs,  know, but  won't tell . 
Something  wrong  Olympus, something pretty major. Last time  was there, everything seemed so 
normal." 

"You've been  Olympus?" 

"Some of us year-rounders — Luke and Clarisse and  and  few others — we took  field trip during 
winter solstice. That's when  gods have their big annual council." 



"But . . . how did  get there?" 

"The Long Island Railroad, of course. You get off at Penn Station. Empire State Building, special 
elevator   six hundredth floor." She looked at  like she was sure  must know  already. "You 
are  New Yorker, right?" 

"Oh, sure." As far as  knew, there were only  hundred and two floors   Empire State Building, 
but  decided not  point that out. 

"Right after we visited," Annabeth continued, " weather got weird, as if  gods had started 
fighting. A couple of times since, 've overheard satyrs talking. The best  can figure out  that 
something important was stolen. And if  isn't returned by summer solstice, there's going  be trouble. 
When  came,  was hoping ...  mean — Athena can get along with just about anybody, except for 
Ares. And of course she's got  rivalry with Poseidon. But,  mean, aside from that,  thought we 
could work together.  thought  might know something." 

 shook my head.  wished  could help her, but  felt too hungry and tired and mentally overloaded 
 ask any more questions. 

"'ve got  get  quest," Annabeth muttered  herself. " not too young. If  would just tell 
  problem ..." 

 could smell barbecue smoke coming from somewhere nearby. Annabeth must've heard my 
stomach growl. She told   go , she'd catch  later.  left her   pier, tracing her finger across 
 rail as if drawing  battle plan. 

Back at cabin eleven, everybody was talking and horsing around, waiting for dinner. For  first 
time,  noticed that  lot of  campers had similar features: sharp noses, upturned eyebrows, 
mischievous smiles. They were  kind of kids that teachers would peg as troublemakers. Thankfully, 
nobody paid much attention   as  walked over  my spot   floor and plopped down with my 
minotaur horn. 

The counselor, Luke, came over. He had  Hermes family resemblance, too. It was marred by that 
scar  his right cheek, but his smile was intact. 

"Found   sleeping bag," he said. "And here,  stole  some toiletries from  camp store." 
 couldn't tell if he was kidding about  stealing part. 
 said, "Thanks." 

"No prob." Luke sat next  , pushed his back against  wall. "Tough first day?" 
" don't belong here,"  said. " don't even believe  gods." 

"Yeah," he said. "That's how we all started. Once  start believing  them? It doesn't get any 
easier." 

The bitterness  his voice surprised , because Luke seemed like  pretty easygoing guy. He 
looked like he could handle just about anything. 

"So your dad  Hermes?"  asked. 

He pulled  switchblade out of his back pocket, and for  second  thought he was going  gut , 
but he just scraped  mud off  sole of his sandal. "Yeah. Hermes." 

"The wing-footed messenger guy." 

"That's him. Messengers. Medicine. Travelers, merchants, thieves. Anybody who uses  roads. 
That's why 're here, enjoying cabin eleven's hospitality. Hermes isn't picky about who he 
sponsors." 

 figured Luke didn't mean  call   nobody. He just had  lot  his mind. 



"You ever meet your dad?"  asked. 
"Once." 

 waited, thinking that if he wanted  tell , he'd tell . Apparently, he didn't.  wondered if  
story had anything  do with how he got his scar. 

Luke looked up and managed  smile. "Don't worry about , Percy. The campers here,  
mostly good people. After all, we're extended family, right? We take care of each other." 

He seemed  understand how lost  felt, and  was grateful for that, because an older guy like him — 
even if he was  counselor — should've steered clear of an uncool middle-schooler like . But Luke 
had welcomed  into  cabin. He'd even stolen  some toiletries, which was  nicest thing 
anybody had done for  all day. 

 decided  ask him my last big question,  one that had been bothering  all afternoon. 
"Clarisse, from Ares, was joking about  being 'Big Three' material. Then Annabeth . . . twice, she 
said  might be ' one.' She said  should talk   Oracle. What was that all about?" 

Luke folded his knife. " hate prophecies." 
"What do  mean?" 

His face twitched around  scar. "Let's just say  messed things up for everybody else. The last 
two years, ever since my trip   Garden of  Hesperides went sour, Chiron hasn't allowed any 
more quests. Annabeth's been dying  get out into  world. She pestered Chiron so much he finally 
told her he already knew her fate. He'd had  prophecy from  Oracle. He wouldn't tell her  whole 
thing, but he said Annabeth wasn't destined  go   quest yet. She had  wait until . . . somebody 
special came   camp." 

"Somebody special?" 

"Don't worry about , kid," Luke said. "Annabeth wants  think every new camper who comes 
through here   omen she's been waiting for. Now, come ,  dinnertime." 

The moment he said ,  horn blew   distance. Somehow,  knew  was  conch shell, even 
though 'd never heard one before. 

Luke yelled, "Eleven, fall !" 

The whole cabin, about twenty of us, filed into  commons yard. We lined up  order of seniority, 
so of course  was dead last. Campers came from  other cabins, too, except for  three empty cabins 
at  end, and cabin eight, which had looked normal   daytime, but was now starting  glow silver 
as  sun went down. 

We marched up  hill   mess hall pavilion. Satyrs joined us from  meadow. Naiads 
emerged from  canoeing lake. A few other girls came out of  woods — and when  say out of  
woods,  mean straight out of  woods.  saw one girl, about nine or ten years old, melt from  side 
of  maple tree and come skipping up  hill. 

In all, there were maybe  hundred campers,  few dozen satyrs, and  dozen assorted wood nymphs 
and naiads. 

At  pavilion, torches blazed around  marble columns. A central fire burned   bronze brazier 
 size of  bathtub. Each cabin had its own table, covered  white cloth trimmed  purple. Four of 
 tables were empty, but cabin eleven's was way overcrowded.  had  squeeze    edge of  
bench with half my butt hanging off. 

 saw Grover sitting at table twelve with Mr. D,  few satyrs, and  couple of plump blond boys who 
looked just like Mr. D. Chiron stood  one side,  picnic table being way too small for  centaur. 

Annabeth sat at table six with  bunch of serious-looking athletic kids, all with her gray eyes and 



honey-blond hair. 

Clarisse sat behind  at Ares's table. She'd apparently gotten over being hosed down, because she 
was laughing and belching right alongside her friends. 

Finally, Chiron pounded his hoof against  marble floor of  pavilion, and everybody fell silent. 
He raised  glass. "To  gods!" 

Everybody else raised their glasses. "To  gods!" 

Wood nymphs came forward with platters of food: grapes, apples, strawberries, cheese, fresh bread, 
and yes, barbecue! My glass was empty, but Luke said, "Speak  . Whatever  want — nonalcoholic, 
of course." 

 said, "Cherry Coke." 

The glass filled with sparkling caramel liquid. 
Then  had an idea. "Blue Cherry Coke." 
The soda turned  violent shade of cobalt. 
 took  cautious sip. Perfect. 
 drank  toast  my mother. 

She's not gone,  told myself. Not permanently, anyway. She's   Underworld. And if that's  
real place, then someday . . . 

"Here  go, Percy," Luke said, handing   platter of smoked brisket. 

 loaded my plate and was about  take  big bite when  noticed everybody getting up, carrying 
their plates toward  fire   center of  pavilion.  wondered if  were going for dessert or 
something. 

"Come ," Luke told . 

As  got closer,  saw that everyone was taking  portion of their meal and dropping  into  fire, 
 ripest strawberry,  juiciest slice of beef,  warmest, most buttery roll. 

Luke murmured  my ear, "Burnt offerings for  gods. They like  smell." 

"You're kidding." 

His look warned  not  take  lightly, but  couldn't help wondering why an immortal, all- 
powerful being would like  smell of burning food. 

Luke approached  fire, bowed his head, and tossed   cluster of fat red grapes. "Hermes." 
 was next. 

 wished  knew what god's name  say. 

Finally,  made  silent plea. Whoever  are, tell . Please. 

 scraped  big slice of brisket into  flames. 

When  caught  whiff of  smoke,  didn't gag. 

It smelled nothing like burning food. It smelled of hot chocolate and fresh-baked brownies, 
hamburgers   grill and wildf lowers, and  hundred other good things that shouldn't have gone well 
together, but did.  could almost believe  gods could live off that smoke. 

When everybody had returned  their seats and finished eating their meals, Chiron pounded his 
hoof again for our attention. 

Mr. D got up with  huge sigh. "Yes,  suppose 'd better say hello  all  brats. Well, hello. Our 
activities director, Chiron, says  next capture  flag  Friday. Cabin five presently holds  
laurels." 



A bunch of ugly cheering rose from  Ares table. 

"Personally," Mr. D continued, " couldn't care less, but congratulations. Also,  should tell  that 
we have  new camper today. Peter Johnson." 

Chiron murmured something. 

"Er, Percy Jackson," Mr. D corrected. "That's right. Hurrah, and all that. Now run along  your silly 
campfire. Go ." 

Everybody cheered. We all headed down toward  amphitheater, where Apollo's cabin led  sing- 
along. We sang camp songs about  gods and ate s'mores and joked around, and  funny thing was,  
didn't feel that anyone was staring at  anymore.  felt that  was home. 

Later   evening, when  sparks from  campfire were curling into  starry sky,  conch 
horn blew again, and we all filed back  our cabins.  didn't realize how exhausted  was until  
collapsed  my borrowed sleeping bag. 

My fingers curled around  Minotaur's horn.  thought about my mom, but  had good thoughts: 
her smile,  bedtime stories she would read  when  was  kid,  way she would tell  not  let 
 bedbugs bite. 

When  closed my eyes,  fell asleep instantly. 

That was my first day at Camp Half-Blood. 

 wish 'd known how briefly  would get  enjoy my new home. 


The next few days  settled into  routine that felt almost normal, if  don't count  fact that  
was getting lessons from satyrs, nymphs, and  centaur. 

Each morning  took Ancient Greek from Annabeth, and we talked about  gods and goddesses  
 present tense, which was kind of weird.  discovered Annabeth was right about my dyslexia: 
Ancient Greek wasn't that hard for   read. At least, no harder than English. After  couple of 
mornings,  could stumble through  few lines of Homer without too much headache. 

The rest of  day, 'd rotate through outdoor activities, looking for something  was good at. 
Chiron tried  teach  archery, but we found out pretty quick  wasn't any good with  bow and 
arrow. He didn't complain, even when he had  desnag  stray arrow out of his tail. 

Foot racing? No good either. The wood-nymph instructors left    dust. They told  not  
worry about . They'd had centuries of practice running away from lovesick gods. But still,  was  
little humiliating  be slower than  tree. 

And wrestling? Forget . Every time  got   mat, Clarisse would pulverize . 

"There's more where that came from, punk," she'd mumble  my ear. 

The only thing  really excelled at was canoeing, and that wasn't  kind of heroic skill people 
expected  see from  kid who had beaten  Minotaur. 

 knew  senior campers and counselors were watching , trying  decide who my dad was, but 
 weren't having an easy time of .  wasn't as strong as  Ares kids, or as good at archery as  
Apollo kids.  didn't have Hephaestus's skill with metalwork or — gods forbid — Dionysus's way with 
vine plants. Luke told   might be  child of Hermes,  kind of jack-of-all-trades, master of none. But 
 got  feeling he was just trying  make  feel better. He really didn't know what  make of  
either. 

Despite all that,  liked camp.  got used   morning fog over  beach,  smell of hot 
strawberry fields   afternoon, even  weird noises of monsters   woods at night.  would eat 
dinner with cabin eleven, scrape part of my meal into  fire, and try  feel some connection  my 
real dad. Nothing came. Just that warm feeling 'd always had, like  memory of his smile.  tried not 
 think too much about my mom, but  kept wondering: if gods and monsters were real, if all  
magical stuff was possible, surely there was some way  save her,  bring her back. . . . 

 started  understand Luke's bitterness and how he seemed  resent his father, Hermes. So okay, 
maybe gods had important things  do. But couldn't  call once   while, or thunder, or 
something? Dionysus could make Diet Coke appear out of thin air. Why couldn't my dad, whoever he 
was, make  phone appear? 

Thursday afternoon, three days after 'd arrived at Camp Half-Blood,  had my first sword-fighting 
lesson. Everybody from cabin eleven gathered   big circular arena, where Luke would be our 
instructor. 



We started with basic stabbing and slashing, using some straw-stuffed dummies  Greek armor.  
guess  did okay. At least,  understood what  was supposed  do and my reflexes were good. 

The problem was,  couldn't find  blade that felt right  my hands. Either  were too heavy, or 
too light, or too long. Luke tried his best  fix  up, but he agreed that none of  practice blades 
seemed  work for . 

We moved   dueling  pairs. Luke announced he would be my partner, since  was my first 
time. 

"Good luck," one of  campers told . "Luke's  best swordsman   last three hundred 
years." 

"Maybe he'll go easy  ,"  said. 
The camper snorted. 

Luke showed  thrusts and parries and shield blocks  hard way. With every swipe,  got  little 
more battered and bruised. "Keep your guard up, Percy," he'd say, then whap    ribs with  flat 
of his blade. "No, not that far up!" Whap! "Lunge!" Whap! "Now, back!" Whap! 

By  time he called  break,  was soaked  sweat. Everybody swarmed  drinks cooler. Luke 
poured ice water  his head, which looked like such  good idea,  did  same. 

Instantly,  felt better. Strength surged back into my arms. The sword didn't feel so awkward. 

"Okay, everybody circle up!" Luke ordered. "If Percy doesn't mind,  want  give   little 
demo." 

Great,  thought. Let's all watch Percy get pounded. 

The Hermes guys gathered around. They were suppressing smiles.  figured 'd been  my shoes 
before and couldn't wait  see how Luke used  for  punching bag. He told everybody he was going 
 demonstrate  disarming technique: how  twist  enemy's blade with  flat of your own sword 
so that he had no choice but  drop his weapon. 

"This  difficult," he stressed. "'ve had  used against . No laughing at Percy, now. Most 
swordsmen have  work years  master  technique." 

He demonstrated  move    slow motion. Sure enough,  sword clattered out of my hand. 

"Now  real time," he said, after 'd retrieved my weapon. "We keep sparring until one of us pulls  
off. Ready, Percy?" 

 nodded, and Luke came after . Somehow,  kept him from getting  shot at  hilt of my sword. 
My senses opened up.  saw his attacks coming.  countered.  stepped forward and tried  thrust of my 
own. Luke deflected  easily, but  saw  change  his face. His eyes narrowed, and he started  press 
 with more force. 

The sword grew heavy  my hand. The balance wasn't right.  knew  was only  matter of seconds 
before Luke took  down, so  figured, What  heck? 

 tried  disarming maneuver. 

My blade hit  base of Luke's and  twisted, putting my whole weight into  downward thrust. 
Clang. 

Luke's sword rattled against  stones. The tip of my blade was an inch from his undefended chest. 

The other campers were silent. 

 lowered my sword. "Urn, sorry." 

For  moment, Luke was too stunned  speak. 

"Sorry?" His scarred face broke into  grin. "By  gods, Percy, why are  sorry? Show  that 



again!" 

 didn't want . The short burst of manic energy had completely abandoned . But Luke insisted. 

This time, there was no contest. The moment our swords connected, Luke hit my hilt and sent my 
weapon skidding across  floor. 

After  long pause, somebody   audience said, "Beginner's luck?" 

Luke wiped  sweat off his brow. He appraised at  with an entirely new interest. "Maybe," he 
said. "But  wonder what Percy could do with  balanced sword. . . ." 

Friday afternoon,  was sitting with Grover at  lake, resting from  near-death experience   
climbing wall. Grover had scampered   top like  mountain goat, but  lava had almost gotten . 
My shirt had smoking holes  . The hairs had been singed off my forearms. 

We sat   pier, watching  naiads do underwater basket-weaving, until  got up  nerve  
ask Grover how his conversation had gone with Mr. D. 

His face turned  sickly shade of yellow. 

"Fine," he said. "Just great." 

"So your career's still  track?" 

He glanced at  nervously. "Chiron t-told   want  searcher's license?" 

"Well . . . no."  had no idea what  searcher's license was, but  didn't seem like  right time  
ask. "He just said  had big plans,  know . . . and that  needed credit for completing  keeper's 
assignment. So did  get ?" 

Grover looked down at  naiads. "Mr. D suspended judgment. He said  hadn't failed or succeeded 
with  yet, so our fates were still tied together. If  got  quest and  went along  protect , and 
we both came back alive, then maybe he'd consider  job complete." 

My spirits lifted. "Well, that's not so bad, right?" 

"Blaa-ha-ha! He might as well have transferred   stable-cleaning duty. The chances of  
getting  quest . . . and even if  did, why would  want  along?" 
"Of course 'd want  along!" 

Grover stared glumly into  water. "Basket-weaving . . . Must be nice  have  useful skill." 

 tried  reassure him that he had lots of talents, but that just made him look more miserable. We 
talked about canoeing and swordplay for  while, then debated  pros and cons of  different gods. 
Finally,  asked him about  four empty cabins. 

"Number eight,  silver one, belongs  Artemis," he said. "She vowed  be  maiden forever. So 
of course, no kids. The cabin ,  know, honorary. If she didn't have one, she'd be mad." 
"Yeah, okay. But  other three,  ones at  end. Are those  Big Three?" 

Grover tensed. We were getting close   touchy subject. "No. One of them, number two,  
Hera's," he said. "That's another honorary thing. She's  goddess of marriage, so of course she 
wouldn't go around having affairs with mortals. That's her husband's job. When we say  Big Three, 
we mean  three powerful brothers,  sons of Kronos." 

"Zeus, Poseidon, Hades." 

"Right. You know. After  great battle with  Titans,  took over  world from their dad and 
drew lots  decide who got what." 

"Zeus got  sky,"  remembered. "Poseidon  sea, Hades  Underworld." 
"Uh-huh." 

"But Hades doesn't have  cabin here." 



"No. He doesn't have  throne  Olympus, either. He sort of does his own thing down   
Underworld. If he did have  cabin here . . ." Grover shuddered. "Well,  wouldn't be pleasant. Let's 
leave  at that." 

"But Zeus and Poseidon —  both had, like,  bazillion kids   myths. Why are their cabins 
empty?" 

Grover shifted his hooves uncomfortably. "About sixty years ago, after World War II,  Big Three 
agreed  wouldn't sire any more heroes. Their children were just too powerful. They were affecting 
 course of human events too much, causing too much carnage. World War II,  know, that was 
basically  fight between  sons of Zeus and Poseidon  one side, and  sons of Hades   other. 
The winning side, Zeus and Poseidon, made Hades swear an oath with them: no more affairs with 
mortal women. They all swore   River Styx." 

Thunder boomed. 

 said, "That's  most serious oath  can make." 
Grover nodded. 

"And  brothers kept their word — no kids?" 

Graver's face darkened. "Seventeen years ago, Zeus fell off  wagon. There was  TV starlet 
with  big fluffy eighties hairdo — he just couldn't help himself. When their child was born,  little girl 
named Thalia . . . well,  River Styx  serious about promises. Zeus himself got off easy because he's 
immortal, but he brought  terrible fate  his daughter." 

"But that isn't fair! It wasn't  little girl's fault." 

Grover hesitated. "Percy, children of  Big Three have powers greater than other half-bloods. 
They have  strong aura,  scent that attracts monsters. When Hades found out about  girl, he wasn't 
too happy about Zeus breaking his oath. Hades let  worst monsters out of Tartarus  torment Thalia. 
A satyr was assigned  be her keeper when she was twelve, but there was nothing he could do. He tried 
 escort her here with  couple of other half-bloods she'd befriended. They almost made . They got all 
 way   top of that hill." 

He pointed across  valley,   pine tree where 'd fought  minotaur. "All three Kindly Ones 
were after them, along with  hoard of hellhounds. They were about  be overrun when Thalia told her 
satyr  take  other two half-bloods  safety while she held off  monsters. She was wounded and 
tired, and she didn't want  live like  hunted animal. The satyr didn't want  leave her, but he couldn't 
change her mind, and he had  protect  others. So Thalia made her final stand alone, at  top of 
that hill. As she died, Zeus took pity  her. He turned her into that pine tree. Her spirit still helps 
protect  borders of  valley. That's why  hill  called Half-Blood Hill." 

 stared at  pine   distance. 

The story made  feel hollow, and guilty too. A girl my age had sacrificed herself  save her 
friends. She had faced  whole army of monsters. Next  that, my victory over  Minotaur didn't 
seem like much.  wondered, if 'd acted differently, could  have saved my mother? 

"Grover,"  said, "have heroes really gone  quests   Underworld?" 

"Sometimes," he said. "Orpheus. Hercules. Houdini." 

"And have  ever returned somebody from  dead?" 

"No. Never. Orpheus came close. . . . Percy, 're not seriously thinking — " 

"No,"  lied. " was just wondering. So ...  satyr  always assigned  guard  demigod?" 

Grover studied  warily.  hadn't persuaded him that 'd really dropped  Underworld idea. "Not 
always. We go undercover   lot of schools. We try  sniff out  half-bloods who have  makings 



of great heroes. If we find one with  very strong aura, like  child of  Big Three, we alert Chiron. He 
tries  keep an eye  them, since  could cause really huge problems." 
"And  found . Chiron said  thought  might be something special." 

Grover looked as if 'd just led him into  trap. " didn't . . . Oh, listen, don't think like that. If  
were —  know — 'd never ever be allowed  quest, and 'd never get my license. You're probably 
 child of Hermes. Or maybe even one of  minor gods, like Nemesis,  god of revenge. Don't 
worry, okay?" 

 got  idea he was reassuring himself more than . 

That night after dinner, there was  lot more excitement than usual. 

At last,  was time for capture  flag. 

When  plates were cleared away,  conch horn sounded and we all stood at our tables. 

Campers yelled and cheered as Annabeth and two of her siblings ran into  pavilion carrying  silk 
banner. It was about ten feet long, glistening gray, with  painting of  barn owl above an olive tree. 
From  opposite side of  pavilion, Clarisse and her buddies ran  with another banner, of identical 
size, but gaudy red, painted with  bloody spear and  boar's head. 

 turned  Luke and yelled over  noise, "Those are  flags?" 

"Yeah." 

"Ares and Athena always lead  teams?" 
"Not always," he said. "But often." 

"So, if another cabin captures one, what do  do — repaint  flag?" 
He grinned. "You'll see. First we have  get one." 
"Whose side are we ?" 

He gave   sly look, as if he knew something  didn't. The scar  his face made him look almost 
evil   torchlight. "We've made  temporary alliance with Athena. Tonight, we get  flag from 
Ares. And  are going  help." 

The teams were announced. Athena had made an alliance with Apollo and Hermes,  two biggest 
cabins. Apparently, privileges had been traded — shower times, chore schedules,  best slots for 
activities —  order  win support. 

Ares had allied themselves with everybody else: Dionysus, Demeter, Aphrodite, and Hephaestus. 
From what 'd seen, Dionysus 's kids were actually good athletes, but there were only two of them. 
Demeter's kids had  edge with nature skills and outdoor stuff, but  weren't very aggressive. 
Aphrodite's sons and daughters  wasn't too worried about. They mostly sat out every activity and 
checked their reflections   lake and did their hair and gossiped. Hephaestus's kids weren't pretty, 
and there were only four of them, but  were big and burly from working   metal shop all day. 
They might be  problem. That, of course, left Ares's cabin:  dozen of  biggest, ugliest, meanest 
kids  Long Island, or anywhere else   planet. 

Chiron hammered his hoof   marble. 

"Heroes!" he announced. "You know  rules. The creek   boundary line. The entire forest  
fair game. All magic items are allowed. The banner must be prominently displayed, and have no more 
than two guards. Prisoners may be disarmed, but may not be bound or gagged. No killing or maiming  
allowed.  will serve as referee and battlefield medic. Arm yourselves!" 

He spread his hands, and  tables were suddenly covered with equipment: helmets, bronze swords, 
spears, oxhide shields coated  metal. 



"Whoa,"  said. "We're really supposed  use these?" 

Luke looked at  as if  were crazy. "Unless  want  get skewered by your friends  cabin 
five. Here — Chiron thought these would fit. You'll be  border patrol." 

My shield was  size of an NBA backboard, with  big caduceus   middle. It weighed about  
million pounds.  could have snowboarded   fine, but  hoped nobody seriously expected   run 
fast. My helmet, like all  helmets  Athena's side, had  blue horsehair plume  top. Ares and their 
allies had red plumes. 

Annabeth yelled, "Blue team, forward!" 

We cheered and shook our swords and followed her down  path   south woods. The red team 
yelled taunts at us as  headed off toward  north. 

 managed  catch up with Annabeth without tripping over my equipment. "Hey." 

She kept marching. 

"So what's  plan?"  asked. "Got any magic items  can loan ?" 

Her hand drifted toward her pocket, as if she were afraid 'd stolen something. 

"Just watch Clarisse's spear," she said. "You don't want that thing touching . Otherwise, don't 
worry. We'll take  banner from Ares. Has Luke given  your job?" 

"Border patrol, whatever that means." 

" easy. Stand by  creek, keep  reds away. Leave  rest  . Athena always has  plan." 

She pushed ahead, leaving    dust. 

"Okay,"  mumbled. "Glad  wanted   your team." 

It was  warm, sticky night. The woods were dark, with fireflies popping  and out of view. 
Annabeth stationed  next   little creek that gurgled over some rocks, then she and  rest of  
team scattered into  trees. 

Standing there alone, with my big blue-feathered helmet and my huge shield,  felt like an idiot. The 
bronze sword, like all  swords 'd tried so far, seemed balanced wrong. The leather grip pulled  my 
hand like  bowling ball. 

There was no way anybody would actually attack , would ?  mean, Olympus had  have 
liability issues, right? 

Far away,  conch horn blew.  heard whoops and yells   woods,  clanking of metal, kids 
fighting. A blue-plumed ally from Apollo raced past  like  deer, leaped through  creek, and 
disappeared into enemy territory. 

Great,  thought. 'll miss all  fun, as usual. 

Then  heard  sound that sent  chill up my spine,  low canine growl, somewhere close by. 
 raised my shield instinctively;  had  feeling something was stalking . 
Then  growling stopped.  felt  presence retreating. 

On  other side of  creek,  underbrush exploded. Five Ares warriors came yelling and 
screaming out of  dark. 

"Cream  punk!" Clarisse screamed. 

Her ugly pig eyes glared through  slits of her helmet. She brandished  five-foot-long spear, its 
barbed metal tip flickering with red light. Her siblings had only  standard-issue bronze swords — not 
that that made  feel any better. 

They charged across  stream. There was no help  sight.  could run. Or  could defend myself 
against half  Ares cabin. 



 managed  sidestep  first kid's swing, but these guys were not as stupid  Minotaur. They 
surrounded , and Clarisse thrust at  with her spear. My shield deflected  point, but  felt  
painful tingling all over my body. My hair stood  end. My shield arm went numb, and  air burned. 

Electricity. Her stupid spear was electric.  fell back. 

Another Ares guy slammed    chest with  butt of his sword and  hit  dirt. 
They could've kicked  into jelly, but  were too busy laughing. 
"Give him  haircut," Clarisse said. "Grab his hair." 

 managed  get  my feet.  raised my sword, but Clarisse slammed  aside with her spear as 
sparks flew. Now both my arms felt numb. 

"Oh, wow," Clarisse said. " scared of  guy. Really scared." 

"The flag  that way,"  told her.  wanted  sound angry, but  was afraid  didn't come out that 
way. 

"Yeah," one of her siblings said. "But see, we don't care about  flag. We care about  guy who 
made our cabin look stupid." 

"You do that without my help,"  told them. It probably wasn't  smartest thing  say. 

Two of them came at .  backed up toward  creek, tried  raise my shield, but Clarisse was too 
fast. Her spear stuck  straight   ribs. If  hadn't been wearing an armored breastplate,  would've 
been shish-ke-babbed. As  was,  electric point just about shocked my teeth out of my mouth. One of 
her cabinmates slashed his sword across my arm, leaving  good-size cut. 

Seeing my own blood made  dizzy — warm and cold at  same time. 

"No maiming,"  managed  say. 

"Oops,"  guy said. "Guess  lost my dessert privilege." 

He pushed  into  creek and  landed with  splash. They all laughed.  figured as soon as  
were through being amused,  would die. But then something happened. The water seemed  wake up 
my senses, as if 'd just had  bag of my mom's double-espresso jelly beans. 

Clarisse and her cabinmates came into  creek  get , but  stood  meet them.  knew what  
do.  swung  flat of my sword against  first guy's head and knocked his helmet clean off.  hit him 
so hard  could see his eyes vibrating as he crumpled into  water. 

Ugly Number Two and Ugly Number Three came at .  slammed one   face with my shield 
and used my sword  shear off  other guy's horsehair plume. Both of them backed up quick. Ugly 
Number Four didn't look really anxious  attack, but Clarisse kept coming,  point of her spear 
crackling with energy. As soon as she thrust,  caught  shaft between  edge of my shield and my 
sword, and  snapped  like  twig. 

"Ah!" she screamed. "You idiot! You corpse-breath worm!" 

She probably would've said worse, but  smacked her between  eyes with my sword-butt and sent 
her stumbling backward out of  creek. 

Then  heard yelling, elated screams, and  saw Luke racing toward  boundary line with  red 
team's banner lifted high. He was flanked by  couple of Hermes guys covering his retreat, and  few 
Apollos behind them, fighting off  Hephaestus kids. The Ares folks got up, and Clarisse muttered  
dazed curse. 

"A trick!" she shouted. "It was  trick." 

They staggered after Luke, but  was too late. Everybody converged   creek as Luke ran across 
into friendly territory. Our side exploded into cheers. The red banner shimmered and turned  silver. 



The boar and spear were replaced with  huge caduceus,  symbol of cabin eleven. Everybody   
blue team picked up Luke and started carrying him around  their shoulders. Chiron cantered out from 
 woods and blew  conch horn. 

The game was over. We'd won. 

 was about  join  celebration when Annabeth's voice, right next     creek, said, "Not 
bad, hero." 

 looked, but she wasn't there. 

"Where  heck did  learn  fight like that?" she asked. The air shimmered, and she 
materialized, holding  Yankees baseball cap as if she'd just taken  off her head. 

 felt myself getting angry.  wasn't even fazed by  fact that she'd just been invisible. "You set  
up,"  said. "You put  here because  knew Clarisse would come after , while  sent Luke 
around  flank. You had  all figured out." 

Annabeth shrugged. " told . Athena always, always has  plan." 
"A plan  get  pulverized." 

" came as fast as  could.  was about  jump , but . . ." She shrugged. "You didn't need help." 
Then she noticed my wounded arm. "How did  do that?" 
"Sword cut,"  said. "What do  think?" 
"No. It was  sword cut. Look at ." 

The blood was gone. Where  huge cut had been, there was  long white scratch, and even that 
was fading. As  watched,  turned into  small scar, and disappeared. 

"I—  don't get ,"  said. 

Annabeth was thinking hard.  could almost see  gears turning. She looked down at my feet, then 
at Clarisse's broken spear, and said, "Step out of  water, Percy." 
"What—" 
"Just do ." 

 came out of  creek and immediately felt bone tired. My arms started  go numb again. My 
adrenaline rush left .  almost fell over, but Annabeth steadied . 

"Oh, Styx," she cursed. "This  not good.  didn't want ...  assumed  would be Zeus. . . ." 
Before  could ask what she meant,  heard that canine growl again, but much closer than before. A 
howl ripped through  forest. 

The campers' cheering died instantly. Chiron shouted something  Ancient Greek, which  would 
realize, only later,  had understood perfectly: "Stand ready! My bow! " 

Annabeth drew her sword. 

There   rocks just above us was  black hound  size of  rhino, with lava-red eyes and fangs 
like daggers. 

It was looking straight at . 

Nobody moved except Annabeth, who yelled, "Percy, run!" 

She tried  step  front of , but  hound was too fast. It leaped over her — an enormous shadow 
with teeth — and just as  hit , as  stumbled backward and felt its razor-sharp claws ripping through 
my armor, there was  cascade of thwacking sounds, like forty pieces of paper being ripped one after  
other. From  hound's neck sprouted  cluster of arrows. The monster fell dead at my feet. 

By some miracle,  was still alive.  didn't want  look underneath  ruins of my shredded armor. 
My chest felt warm and wet, and  knew  was badly cut. Another second, and  monster would've 



turned  into  hundred pounds of delicatessen meat. 

Chiron trotted up next  us,  bow  his hand, his face grim. 

"Di immortales!" Annabeth said. "That's  hellhound from  Fields of Punishment. They don't . . 
.  not supposed  . . ." 

"Someone summoned ," Chiron said. "Someone inside  camp." 
Luke came over,  banner  his hand forgotten, his moment of glory gone. 
Clarisse yelled, " all Percy's fault! Percy summoned !" 
"Be quiet, child," Chiron told her. 

We watched  body of  hellhound melt into shadow, soaking into  ground until  
disappeared. 

"You're wounded," Annabeth told . "Quick, Percy, get   water." 
" okay." 

"No, 're not," she said. "Chiron, watch ." 

 was too tired  argue.  stepped back into  creek,  whole camp gathering around . 
Instantly,  felt better.  could feel  cuts  my chest closing up. Some of  campers gasped. 
"Look,  —  don't know why,"  said, trying  apologize. " sorry. . . ." 
But  weren't watching my wounds heal. They were staring at something above my head. 
"Percy," Annabeth said, pointing. "Urn . . ." 

By  time  looked up,  sign was already fading, but  could still make out  hologram of 
green light, spinning and gleaming. A three-tipped spear:  trident. 

"Your father," Annabeth murmured. "This  really not good." 

"It  determined," Chiron announced. 

All around , campers started kneeling, even  Ares cabin, though  didn't look happy about 

. 

"My father?"  asked, completely bewildered. 

"Poseidon," said Chiron. "Earthshaker, Stormbringer, Father of Horses. Hail, Perseus Jackson, Son 
of  Sea God." 
The next morning, Chiron moved   cabin three. 

 didn't have  share with anybody.  had plenty of room for all my stuff:  Minotaur's horn, one 
set of spare clothes, and  toiletry bag.  got  sit at my own dinner table, pick all my own activities, 
call "lights out" whenever  felt like , and not listen  anybody else. 

And  was absolutely miserable. 

Just when 'd started  feel accepted,  feel  had  home  cabin eleven and  might be  normal 
kid — or as normal as  can be when 're  half-blood — 'd been separated out as if  had some rare 
disease. 

Nobody mentioned  hellhound, but  got  feeling  were all talking about  behind my 
back. The attack had scared everybody. It sent two messages: one, that  was  son of  Sea God; 
and two, monsters would stop at nothing  kill . They could even invade  camp that had always 
been considered safe. 

The other campers steered clear of  as much as possible. Cabin eleven was too nervous  have 
sword class with  after what 'd done   Ares folks   woods, so my lessons with Luke 
became one--one. He pushed  harder than ever, and wasn't afraid  bruise  up   process. 

"You're going  need all  training  can get," he promised, as we were working with swords 
and flaming torches. "Now let's try that viper-beheading strike again. Fifty more repetitions." 

Annabeth still taught  Greek   mornings, but she seemed distracted. Every time  said 
something, she scowled at , as if 'd just poked her between  eyes. 

After lessons, she would walk away muttering  herself: "Quest . . . Poseidon? . . . Dirty rotten . . . 
Got  make  plan ..." 

Even Clarisse kept her distance, though her venomous looks made  clear she wanted  kill  for 
breaking her magic spear.  wished she would just yell or punch  or something. 'd rather get into 
fights every day than be ignored. 

 knew somebody at camp resented , because one night  came into my cabin and found  mortal 
newspaper dropped inside  doorway,  copy of  New York Daily News, opened   Metro page. 
The article took  almost an hour  read, because  angrier  got,  more  words floated around 
  page. 

BOY AND MOTHER STILL MISSING AFTER FREAK CAR ACCIDENT 

BY EILEEN SMYTHE 



Sally Jackson and son Percy are still missing one week after their mysterious 
disappearance. The family's badly burned '78 Camaro was discovered last Saturday   



north Long Island road with  roof ripped off and  front axle broken. The car had flipped 
and skidded for several hundred feet before exploding. 

Mother and son had gone for  weekend vacation  Montauk, but left hastily, under 
mysterious circumstances. Small traces of blood were found   car and near  scene of 
 wreck, but there were no other signs of  missing Jacksons. Residents   rural area 
reported seeing nothing unusual around  time of  accident. 

Ms. Jackson's husband, Gabe Ugliano, claims that his stepson, Percy Jackson,   
troubled child who has been kicked out of numerous boarding schools and has expressed 
violent tendencies   past. 

Police would not say whether son Percy   suspect  his mother's disappearance, but 
 have not ruled out foul play. Below are recent pictures of Sally Jackson and Percy. Police 
urge anyone with information  call  following toll-free crime-stoppers hotline. 

The phone number was circled  black marker. 

 wadded up  paper and threw  away, then flopped down  my bunk bed   middle of my 
empty cabin. 

"Lights out,"  told myself miserably. 

That night,  had my worst dream yet.  was running along  beach   storm. This time, there was 
 city behind . Not New York. The sprawl was different: buildings spread farther apart, palm trees 
and low hills   distance. 

About  hundred yards down  surf, two men were fighting. They looked like TV wrestlers, 
muscular, with beards and long hair. Both wore flowing Greek tunics, one trimmed  blue,  other  
green. They grappled with each other, wrestled, kicked and head-butted, and every time  connected, 
lightning flashed,  sky grew darker, and  wind rose. 

 had  stop them.  didn't know why. But  harder  ran,  more  wind blew  back, until  
was running  place, my heels digging uselessly   sand. 

Over  roar of  storm,  could hear  blue-robed one yelling at  green-robed one, Give  
back! Give  back! Like  kindergartner fighting over  toy. 

The waves got bigger, crashing into  beach, spraying  with salt. 

 yelled, Stop ! Stop fighting! 

The ground shook. Laughter came from somewhere under  earth, and  voice so deep and evil  
turned my blood  ice. 

Come down, little hero,  voice crooned. Come down! 

The sand split beneath , opening up  crevice straight down   center of  earth. My feet 
slipped, and darkness swallowed . 
 woke up, sure  was falling. 

 was still  bed  cabin three. My body told   was morning, but  was dark outside, and 
thunder rolled across  hills. A storm was brewing.  hadn't dreamed that. 

 heard  clopping sound at  door,  hoof knocking   threshold. 

"Come ?" 

Grover trotted inside, looking worried. "Mr. D wants  see ." 
"Why?" 

"He wants  kill ...  mean, 'd better let him tell ." 



Nervously,  got dressed and followed, sure that  was  huge trouble. 

For days, 'd been half expecting  summons   Big House. Now that  was declared  son of 
Poseidon, one of  Big Three gods who weren't supposed  have kids,  figured  was  crime for  
just  be alive. The other gods had probably been debating  best way  punish  for existing, and 
now Mr. D was ready  deliver their verdict. 

Over Long Island Sound,  sky looked like ink soup coming   boil. A hazy curtain of rain was 
coming  our direction.  asked Grover if we needed an umbrella. 

"No," he said. "It never rains here unless we want  ." 

 pointed at  storm. "What  heck  that, then?" 

He glanced uneasily at  sky. "It'll pass around us. Bad weather always does." 

 realized he was right. In  week 'd been here,  had never even been overcast. The few rain 
clouds 'd seen had skirted right around  edges of  valley. 
But  storm . . .  one was huge. 

At  volleyball pit,  kids from Apollo's cabin were playing  morning game against  satyrs. 
Dionysus 's twins were walking around   strawberry fields, making  plants grow. Everybody was 
going about their normal business, but  looked tense. They kept their eyes   storm. 

Grover and  walked up   front porch of  Big House. Dionysus sat at  pinochle table  his 
tiger-striped Hawaiian shirt with his Diet Coke, just as he had  my first day. Chiron sat across  
table  his fake wheelchair. They were playing against invisible opponents — two sets of cards hovering 
  air. 

"Well, well," Mr. D said without looking up. "Our little celebrity." 
 waited. 

"Come closer," Mr. D said. "And don't expect   kowtow  , mortal, just because old 
Barnacle-Beard  your father." 

A net of lightning flashed across  clouds. Thunder shook  windows of  house. 

"Blah, blah, blah," Dionysus said. 

Chiron feigned interest  his pinochle cards. Grover cowered by  railing, his hooves clopping 
back and forth. 

"If  had my way," Dionysus said, " would cause your molecules  erupt  flames. We'd sweep up 
 ashes and be done with  lot of trouble. But Chiron seems  feel  would be against my mission 
at  cursed camp:  keep  little brats safe from harm." 

"Spontaneous combustion   form of harm, Mr. D," Chiron put . 

"Nonsense," Dionysus said. "Boy wouldn't feel  thing. 

Nevertheless, 've agreed  restrain myself.  thinking of turning  into  dolphin instead, 
sending  back  your father." 

"Mr. D — " Chiron warned. 

"Oh, all right," Dionysus relented. "There's one more option. But  deadly foolishness." Dionysus 
rose, and  invisible players' cards dropped   table. " off  Olympus for  emergency 
meeting. If  boy  still here when  get back, 'll turn him into an Atlantic bottlenose. Do  
understand? And Perseus Jackson, if 're at all smart, 'll see that's  much more sensible choice 
than what Chiron feels  must do." 

Dionysus picked up  playing card, twisted , and  became  plastic rectangle. A credit card? No. 
A security pass. 



He snapped his fingers. 

The air seemed  fold and bend around him. He became  hologram, then  wind, then he was gone, 
leaving only  smell of fresh-pressed grapes lingering behind. 

Chiron smiled at , but he looked tired and strained. "Sit, Percy, please. And Grover." 
We did. 

Chiron laid his cards   table,  winning hand he hadn't gotten  use. 
"Tell , Percy," he said. "What did  make of  hellhound?" 
Just hearing  name made  shudder. 

Chiron probably wanted   say, Heck,  was nothing.  eat hellhounds for breakfast. But  didn't 
feel like lying. 

"It scared ,"  said. "If  hadn't shot , 'd be dead." 

"You'll meet worse, Percy. Far worse, before 're done." 

"Done . . . with what?" 

"Your quest, of course. Will  accept ?" 

 glanced at Grover, who was crossing his fingers. 

"Um, sir,"  said, " haven't told  what   yet." 

Chiron grimaced. "Well, that's  hard part,  details." 

Thunder rumbled across  valley. The storm clouds had now reached  edge of  beach. As far 
as  could see,  sky and  sea were boiling together. 

"Poseidon and Zeus,"  said. "They're fighting over something valuable . . . something that was 
stolen, aren't ?" 

Chiron and Grover exchanged looks. 

Chiron sat forward  his wheelchair. "How did  know that?" 

My face felt hot.  wished  hadn't opened my big mouth. "The weather since Christmas has been 
weird, like  sea and  sky are fighting. Then  talked  Annabeth, and she'd overheard something 
about  theft. And . . . 've also been having these dreams." 

" knew ," Grover said. 

"Hush, satyr," Chiron ordered. 

"But   his quest!" Graver's eyes were bright with excitement. "It must be!" 
"Only  Oracle can determine." Chiron stroked his bristly beard. "Nevertheless, Percy,  are 
correct. Your father and Zeus are having their worst quarrel  centuries. 

They are fighting over something valuable that was stolen. 
To be precise:  lightning bolt." 
 laughed nervously. "A what?" 

"Do not take  lightly," Chiron warned. " not talking about some tinfoil-covered zigzag 'd 
see   second-grade play.  talking about  two-foot-long cylinder of high-grade celestial bronze, 
capped  both ends with god-level explosives." 

"Oh." 

"Zeus's master bolt," Chiron said, getting worked up now. "The symbol of his power, from which 
all other lightning bolts are patterned. The first weapon made by  Cyclopes for  war against  
Titans,  bolt that sheered  top off Mount Etna and hurled Kronos from his throne;  master bolt, 
which packs enough power  make mortal hydrogen bombs look like firecrackers." 



"And  missing?" 
"Stolen," Chiron said. 
"By who?" 

"By whom," Chiron corrected. Once  teacher, always  teacher. "By ." 
My mouth fell open. 

"At least" — Chiron held up  hand — "that's what Zeus thinks. During  winter solstice, at  last 
council of  gods, Zeus and Poseidon had an argument. The usual nonsense: 'Mother Rhea always 
liked  best,' 'Air disasters are more spectacular than sea disasters,' et cetera. Afterward, Zeus 
realized his master bolt was missing, taken from  throne room under his very nose. He immediately 
blamed Poseidon. Now,  god cannot usurp another god's symbol of power directly — that  forbidden 
by  most ancient of divine laws. But Zeus believes your father convinced  human hero  take ." 

"But  didn't—" 

"Patience and listen, child," Chiron said. "Zeus has good reason  be suspicious. The forges of  
Cyclopes are under  ocean, which gives Poseidon some influence over  makers of his brother's 
lightning. Zeus believes Poseidon has taken  master bolt, and  now secretly having  Cyclopes 
build an arsenal of illegal copies, which might be used  topple Zeus from his throne. The only thing 
Zeus wasn't sure about was which hero Poseidon used  steal  bolt. Now Poseidon has openly 
claimed  as his son. You were  New York over  winter holidays. You could easily have snuck 
into Olympus. Zeus believes he has found his thief." 

"But 've never even been  Olympus! Zeus  crazy!" 

Chiron and Grover glanced nervously at  sky. The clouds didn't seem  be parting around us, as 
Grover had promised. They were rolling straight over our valley, sealing us  like  coffin lid. 

"Er, Percy Grover said. "We don't use  c-word  describe  Lord of  Sky." 

"Perhaps paranoid," Chiron suggested. "Then again, Poseidon has tried  unseat Zeus before.  
believe that was question thirty-eight  your final exam. ..." He looked at  as if he actually 
expected   remember question thirty-eight. 

How could anyone accuse  of stealing  god's weapon?  couldn't even steal  slice of pizza from 
Gabe's poker party without getting busted. Chiron was waiting for an answer. 

"Something about  golden net?"  guessed. "Poseidon and Hera and  few other gods . . . , like, 
trapped Zeus and wouldn't let him out until he promised  be  better ruler, right?" 

"Correct," Chiron said. "And Zeus has never trusted Poseidon since. Of course, Poseidon denies 
stealing  master bolt. He took great offense at  accusation. The two have been arguing back and 
forth for months, threatening war. And now, 've come along —  proverbial last straw." 

"But  just  kid!" 

"Percy," Grover cut , "if  were Zeus, and  already thought your brother was plotting  
overthrow , then your brother suddenly admitted he had broken  sacred oath he took after World 
War II, that he's fathered  new mortal hero who might be used as  weapon against . . . . Wouldn't 
that put  twist  your toga?" 

"But  didn't do anything. Poseidon — my dad — he didn't really have  master bolt stolen, did 
he?" 

Chiron sighed. "Most thinking observers would agree that thievery  not Poseidon's style. But  
Sea God  too proud  try convincing Zeus of that. Zeus has demanded that Poseidon return  bolt by 
 summer solstice. That's June twenty-first, ten days from now. Poseidon wants an apology for being 
called  thief by  same date.  hoped that diplomacy might prevail, that Hera or Demeter or Hestia 



would make  two brothers see sense. But your arrival has inflamed Zeus's temper. Now neither god 
will back down. Unless someone intervenes, unless  master bolt  found and returned  Zeus before 
 solstice, there will be war. And do  know what  full-fledged war would look like, Percy?" 
"Bad?"  guessed. 

"Imagine  world  chaos. Nature at war with itself. Olympians forced  choose sides between 
Zeus and Poseidon. Destruction. Carnage. Millions dead. Western civilization turned into  battleground 
so big  will make  Trojan War look like  water-balloon fight." 

"Bad,"  repeated. 

"And , Percy Jackson, would be  first  feel Zeus's wrath." 

It started  rain. Volleyball players stopped their game and stared  stunned silence at  sky. 

 had brought  storm  Half-Blood Hill. Zeus was punishing  whole camp because of .  
was furious. 

"So  have  find  stupid bolt,"  said. "And return   Zeus." 

"What better peace offering," Chiron said, "than  have  son of Poseidon return Zeus's 
property?" 

"If Poseidon doesn't have , where   thing?" 

" believe  know." Chiron's expression was grim. "Part of  prophecy  had years ago . . . well, 
some of  lines make sense  , now. But before  can say more,  must officially take up  
quest. You must seek  counsel of  Oracle." 

"Why can't  tell  where  bolt  beforehand?" 

"Because if  did,  would be too afraid  accept  challenge." 

 swallowed. "Good reason." 

"You agree then?" 

 looked at Grover, who nodded encouragingly. 

Easy for him.  was  one Zeus wanted  kill. 

"All right,"  said. " better than being turned into  dolphin." 

"Then  time  consulted  Oracle," Chiron said. "Go upstairs, Percy Jackson,   attic. 
When  come back down, assuming 're still sane, we will talk more." 
Four flights up,  stairs ended under  green trapdoor. 

 pulled  cord. The door swung down, and  wooden ladder clattered into place. 

The warm air from above smelled like mildew and rotten wood and something else ...  smell  
remembered from biology class. Reptiles. The smell of snakes. 

 held my breath and climbed. 

The attic was filled with Greek hero junk: armor stands covered  cobwebs; once-bright shields 
pitted with rust; old leather steamer trunks plastered with stickers saying ITHAKA, CIRCE'S ISLE, and 
LAND OF THE AMAZONS. One long table was stacked with glass jars filled with pickled things — 
severed hairy claws, huge yellow eyes, various other parts of monsters. A dusty mounted trophy   
wall looked like  giant snake's head, but with horns and  full set of shark's teeth. The plaque read, 
HYDRA HEAD #1, WOODSTOCK, N.Y, 1969. 

By  window, sitting   wooden tripod stool, was  most gruesome memento of all:  mummy. 
Not  wrapped--cloth kind, but  human female body shriveled   husk. She wore  tie-dyed 
sundress, lots of beaded necklaces, and  headband over long black hair. The skin of her face was thin 
and leathery over her skull, and her eyes were glassy white slits, as if  real eyes had been replaced by 



marbles; she'd been dead  long, long time. 

Looking at her sent chills up my back. And that was before she sat up  her stool and opened her 
mouth. A green mist poured from  mummy's mouth, coiling over  floor  thick tendrils, hissing 
like twenty thousand snakes.  stumbled over myself trying  get   trapdoor, but  slammed shut. 
Inside my head,  heard  voice, slithering into one ear and coiling around my brain:    spirit of 
Delphi, speaker of  prophecies of Phoebus Apollo, slayer of  mighty Python. Approach, seeker, 
and ask. 

 wanted  say, No thanks, wrong door, just looking for  bathroom. But  forced myself  take  
deep breath. 

The mummy wasn't alive. She was some kind of gruesome receptacle for something else,  power 
that was now swirling around    green mist. But its presence didn't feel evil, like my demonic 
math teacher Mrs. Dodds or  Minotaur. It felt more like  Three Fates 'd seen knitting  yarn 
outside  highway fruit stand: ancient, powerful, and definitely not human. But not particularly 
interested  killing , either. 

 got up  courage  ask, "What  my destiny?" 

The mist swirled more thickly, collecting right  front of  and around  table with  pickled 
monster-part jars. Suddenly there were four men sitting around  table, playing cards. Their faces 
became clearer. It was Smelly Gabe and his buddies. 

My fists clenched, though  knew  poker party couldn't be real. It was an illusion, made out of 
mist. 

Gabe turned toward  and spoke   rasping voice of  Oracle: You shall go west, and face  
god who has turned. 

His buddy   right looked up and said   same voice: You shall find what was stolen, and see 
 safely returned. 

The guy   left threw  two poker chips, then said: You shall be betrayed by one who calls  
 friend. 

Finally, Eddie, our building super, delivered  worst line of all: And  shall fail  save what 
matters most,   end. 

The figures began  dissolve. At first  was too stunned  say anything, but as  mist retreated, 
coiling into  huge green serpent and slithering back into  mouth of  mummy,  cried, "Wait! What 
do  mean? What friend? What will  fail  save?" 

The tail of  mist snake disappeared into  mummy's mouth. She reclined back against  wall. 
Her mouth closed tight, as if  hadn't been open   hundred years. The attic was silent again, 
abandoned, nothing but  room full of mementos. 

 got  feeling that  could stand here until  had cobwebs, too, and  wouldn't learn anything else. 
My audience with  Oracle was over. 
"Well?" Chiron asked . 

 slumped into  chair at  pinochle table. "She said  would retrieve what was stolen." 
Grover sat forward, chewing excitedly   remains of  Diet Coke can. "That's great!" 
"What did  Oracle say exactly?" Chiron pressed. "This  important." 

My ears were still tingling from  reptilian voice. "She . . . she said  would go west and face  
god who had turned.  would retrieve what was stolen and see  safely returned." 

" knew ," Grover said. 



Chiron didn't look satisfied. "Anything else?" 
 didn't want  tell him. 

What friend would betray ?  didn't have that many. 

And  last line —  would fail  save what mattered most. What kind of Oracle would send   
 quest and tell , Oh, by  way,  '// fa/7. 

How could  confess that? 

"No,"  said. "That's about ." 

He studied my face. "Very well, Percy. But know :  Oracle's words often have double 
meanings. Don't dwell  them too much. The truth  not always clear until events come  pass." 

 got  feeling he knew  was holding back something bad, and he was trying  make  feel 
better. 

"Okay,"  said, anxious  change topics. "So where do  go? Who's  god   west?" 

"Ah, think, Percy," Chiron said. "If Zeus and Poseidon weaken each other   war, who stands  
gain?" 

"Somebody else who wants  take over?"  guessed. 

"Yes, quite. Someone who harbors  grudge, who has been unhappy with his lot since  world was 
divided eons ago, whose kingdom would grow powerful with  deaths of millions. Someone who 
hates his brothers for forcing him into an oath  have no more children, an oath that both of them have 
now broken." 

 thought about my dreams,  evil voice that had spoken from under  ground. "Hades." 
Chiron nodded. "The Lord of  Dead   only possibility." 
A scrap of aluminum dribbled out of Grover's mouth. "Whoa, wait. Wh-what?" 
"A Fury came after Percy," Chiron reminded him. "She watched  young man until she was sure 
of his identity, then tried  kill him. Furies obey only one lord: Hades." 

"Yes, but — but Hades hates all heroes," Grover protested. "Especially if he has found out Percy   
son of Poseidon. . . ." 

"A hellhound got into  forest," Chiron continued. "Those can only be summoned from  Fields 
of Punishment, and  had  be summoned by someone within  camp. Hades must have  spy here. 
He must suspect Poseidon will try  use Percy  clear his name. Hades would very much like  kill 
 young half-blood before he can take   quest." 

"Great,"  muttered. "That's two major gods who want  kill ." 

"But  quest  . . ." Grover swallowed. " mean, couldn't  master bolt be  some place like 
Maine? Maine's very nice  time of year." 

"Hades sent  minion  steal  master bolt," Chiron insisted. "He hid    Underworld, 
knowing full well that Zeus would blame Poseidon.  don't pretend  understand  Lord of  Dead's 
motives perfectly, or why he chose  time  start  war, but one thing  certain. Percy must go   
Underworld, find  master bolt, and reveal  truth." 

A strange fire burned  my stomach. The weirdest thing was:  wasn't fear. It was anticipation. The 
desire for revenge. Hades had tried  kill  three times so far, with  Fury,  Minotaur, and  
hellhound. It was his fault my mother had disappeared   flash of light. Now he was trying  frame 
 and my dad for  theft we hadn't committed. 

 was ready  take him . 

Besides, if my mother was   Underworld . . . 



Whoa, boy, said  small part of my brain that was still sane. You're  kid. Hades   god. 
Grover was trembling. He'd started eating pinochle cards like potato chips. 

The poor guy needed  complete  quest with  so he could get his searcher's license, whatever 
that was, but how could  ask him  do  quest, especially when  Oracle said  was destined  
fail? This was suicide. 

"Look, if we know  Hades,"  told Chiron, "why can't we just tell  other gods? Zeus or 
Poseidon could go down   Underworld and bust some heads." 

"Suspecting and knowing are not  same," Chiron said. "Besides, even if  other gods suspect 
Hades — and  imagine Poseidon does —  couldn't retrieve  bolt themselves. Gods cannot cross 
each other's territories except by invitation. That  another ancient rule. Heroes,   other hand, have 
certain privileges. They can go anywhere, challenge anyone, as long as  bold enough and strong 
enough  do . No god can be held responsible for  hero's actions. Why do  think  gods always 
operate through humans?" 

"You're saying  being used." 

" saying  no accident Poseidon has claimed  now.   very risky gamble, but he's   
desperate situation. He needs ." 
My dad needs . 

Emotions rolled around inside  like bits of glass   kaleidoscope.  didn't know whether  feel 
resentful or grateful or happy or angry. Poseidon had ignored  for twelve years. Now suddenly he 
needed . 

 looked at Chiron. "You've known  was Poseidon's son all along, haven't ?" 
" had my suspicions. As  said . . . 've spoken   Oracle, too." 

 got  feeling there was  lot he wasn't telling  about his prophecy, but  decided  couldn't 
worry about that right now. After all,  was holding back information too. 

"So let  get  straight,"  said. " supposed go   Underworld and confront  Lord of 
 Dead." 

"Check," Chiron said. 

"Find  most powerful weapon   universe." 
"Check." 

"And get  back  Olympus before  summer solstice,  ten days." 
"That's about right." 

 looked at Grover, who gulped down  ace of hearts. 

"Did  mention that Maine  very nice  time of year?" he asked weakly. 

"You don't have  go,"  told him. " can't ask that of ." 

"Oh . . ." He shifted his hooves. "No . . .  just that satyrs and underground places . . . well . . ." 

He took  deep breath, then stood, brushing  shredded cards and aluminum bits off his T-shirt. 
"You saved my life, Percy. If ... if 're serious about wanting  along,  won't let  down." 

 felt so relieved  wanted  cry, though  didn't think that would be very heroic. Grover was  
only friend 'd ever had for longer than  few months.  wasn't sure what good  satyr could do against 
 forces of  dead, but  felt better knowing he'd be with . 

"All  way, G-man."  turned  Chiron. "So where do we go? The Oracle just said  go west." 

"The entrance   Underworld  always   west. It moves from age  age, just like Olympus. 
Right now, of course,   America." 



"Where?" 

Chiron looked surprised. " thought that would be obvious enough. The entrance   Underworld 
  Los Angeles." 

"Oh,"  said. "Naturally. So we just get   plane — " 

"No!" Grover shrieked. "Percy, what are  thinking? Have  ever been   plane  your life?" 

 shook my head, feeling embarrassed. My mom had never taken  anywhere by plane. She'd 
always said we didn't have  money. Besides, her parents had died   plane crash. 

"Percy, think," Chiron said. "You are  son of  Sea God. Your father's bitterest rival  Zeus, 
Lord of  Sky. Your mother knew better than  trust   an airplane. You would be  Zeus's 
domain. You would never come down again alive." 

Overhead, lightning crackled. Thunder boomed. 

"Okay,"  said, determined not  look at  storm. "So, 'll travel overland." 

"That's right," Chiron said. "Two companions may accompany . Grover  one. The other has 
already volunteered, if  will accept her help." 

"Gee,"  said, feigning surprise. "Who else would be stupid enough  volunteer for  quest like 
?" 

The air shimmered behind Chiron. 

Annabeth became visible, stuffing her Yankees cap into her back pocket. 

"'ve been waiting  long time for  quest, seaweed brain," she said. "Athena  no fan of Poseidon, 
but if 're going  save  world,   best person  keep  from messing up." 

"If  do say so yourself,"  said. " suppose  have  plan, wise girl?" 
Her cheeks colored. "Do  want my help or not?" 
The truth was,  did.  needed all  help  could get. 
"A trio,"  said. "That'll work." 

"Excellent," Chiron said. "This afternoon, we can take  as far as  bus terminal  Manhattan. 
After that,  are  your own." 

Lightning flashed. Rain poured down   meadows that were never supposed  have violent 
weather. 

"No time  waste," Chiron said. " think  should all get packing." 

It didn't take  long  pack.  decided  leave  Minotaur horn  my cabin, which left  only 
an extra change of clothes and  toothbrush  stuff   backpack Grover had found for . 

The camp store loaned  one hundred dollars  mortal money and twenty golden drachmas. These 
coins were as big as Girl Scout cookies and had images of various Greek gods stamped  one side and 
 Empire State Building   other. The ancient mortal drachmas had been silver, Chiron told us, but 
Olympians never used less than pure gold. Chiron said  coins might come  handy for non-mortal 
transactions — whatever that meant. He gave Annabeth and  each  canteen of nectar and  Ziploc bag 
full of ambrosia squares,  be used only  emergencies, if we were seriously hurt. It was god food, 
Chiron reminded us. It would cure us of almost any injury, but  was lethal  mortals. Too much of  
would make  half-blood very, very feverish. An overdose would burn us up, literally. 

Annabeth was bringing her magic Yankees cap, which she told  had been  twelfth-birthday 
present from her mom. She carried  book  famous classical architecture, written  Ancient Greek,  
read when she got bored, and  long bronze knife, hidden  her shirt sleeve.  was sure  knife would 
get us busted  first time we went through  metal detector. 

Grover wore his fake feet and his pants  pass as human. He wore  green rasta-style cap, because 
when  rained his curly hair flattened and  could just see  tips of his horns. His bright orange 
backpack was full of scrap metal and apples  snack . In his pocket was  set of reed pipes his daddy 
goat had carved for him, even though he only knew two songs: Mozart's Piano Concerto no. 12 and 
Hilary Duff 's "So Yesterday," both of which sounded pretty bad  reed pipes. 

We waved good-bye   other campers, took one last look at  strawberry fields,  ocean, and 
 Big House, then hiked up Half-Blood Hill   tall pine tree that used  be Thalia, daughter of 
Zeus. 

Chiron was waiting for us  his wheelchair. Next  him stood  surfer dude 'd seen when  was 
recovering   sick room. According  Grover,  guy was  camp's head of security. He 
supposedly had eyes all over his body so he could never be surprised. Today, though, he was wearing  
chauffeur's uniform, so  could only see extra peepers  his hands, face and neck. 

"This  Argus," Chiron told . "He will drive  into  city, and, er, well, keep an eye  
things." 

 heard footsteps behind us. 

Luke came running up  hill, carrying  pair of basketball shoes. 
"Hey!" he panted. "Glad  caught ." 

Annabeth blushed,  way she always did when Luke was around. 

"Just wanted  say good luck," Luke told . "And  thought . . . um, maybe  could use these." 
He handed   sneakers, which looked pretty normal. They even smelled kind of normal. 
Luke said, "Maia!" 



White bird's wings sprouted out of  heels, startling  so much,  dropped them. The shoes 
flapped around   ground until  wings folded up and disappeared. 

"Awesome!" Grover said. 

Luke smiled. "Those served  well when  was  my quest. Gift from Dad. Of course,  don't use 
them much these days. . . ." His expression turned sad. 

 didn't know what  say. It was cool enough that Luke had come  say good-bye. 'd been afraid 
he might resent  for getting so much attention  last few days. But here he was giving   magic 
gift. ... It made  blush almost as much as Annabeth. 

"Hey, man,"  said. "Thanks." 

"Listen, Percy . . ." Luke looked uncomfortable. "A lot of hopes are riding  . So just . . . kill 
some monsters for , okay?" 

We shook hands. Luke patted Grover's head between his horns, then gave  good-bye hug  
Annabeth, who looked like she might pass out. 

After Luke was gone,  told her, "You're hyperventilating." 
"Am not." 

"You let him capture  flag instead of , didn't ?" 
"Oh . . . why do  want  go anywhere with , Percy?" 

She stomped down  other side of  hill, where  white SUV waited   shoulder of  road. 
Argus followed, jingling his car keys. 

 picked up  flying shoes and had  sudden bad feeling.  looked at Chiron. " won't be able  
use these, will ?" 

He shook his head. "Luke meant well, Percy. But taking   air . . . that would not be wise for 
." 

 nodded, disappointed, but then  got an idea. "Hey, Grover. You want  magic item?" 
His eyes lit up. "Me?" 

Pretty soon we'd laced  sneakers over his fake feet, and  world's first flying goat boy was 
ready for launch. 

"Maial " he shouted. 

He got off  ground okay, but then fell over sideways so his backpack dragged through  grass. 
The winged shoes kept bucking up and down like tiny broncos. 
"Practice," Chiron called after him. "You just need practice!" 

"Aaaaa!" Grover went flying sideways down  hill like  possessed lawn mower, heading toward 
 van. 

Before  could follow, Chiron caught my arm. " should have trained  better, Percy," he said. "If 
only  had more time. Hercules, Jason —  all got more training." 

"That's okay.  just wish — " 

 stopped myself because  was about  sound like  brat.  was wishing my dad had given   
cool magic item  help   quest, something as good as Luke's flying shoes, or Annabeth's invisible 
cap. 

"What   thinking?" Chiron cried. " can't let  get away without ." 

He pulled  pen from his coat pocket and handed   . It was an ordinary disposable ballpoint, 
black ink, removable cap. Probably cost thirty cents. 

"Gee,"  said. "Thanks." 



"Percy, that's  gift from your father. 've kept  for years, not knowing  were who  was waiting 
for. But  prophecy  clear   now. You are  one." 

 remembered  field trip   Metropolitan Museum of Art, when 'd vaporized Mrs. Dodds. 
Chiron had thrown   pen that turned into  sword. Could  be ... ? 

 took off  cap, and  pen grew longer and heavier  my hand. In half  second,  held  
shimmering bronze sword with  double-edged blade,  leather- wrapped grip, and  flat hilt riveted with 
gold studs. It was  first weapon that actually felt balanced  my hand. 

"The sword has  long and tragic history that we need not go into," Chiron told . "Its name  
Anaklusmos." 

"'Riptide,'"  translated, surprised  Ancient Greek came so easily. 

"Use  only for emergencies," Chiron said, "and only against monsters. No hero should harm 
mortals unless absolutely necessary, of course, but  sword wouldn't harm them  any case." 

 looked at  wickedly sharp blade. "What do  mean  wouldn't harm mortals? How could  
not?" 

"The sword  celestial bronze. Forged by  Cyclopes, tempered   heart of Mount Etna, 
cooled   River Lethe.  deadly  monsters,  any creature from  Underworld, provided  
don't kill  first. But  blade will pass through mortals like an illusion. They simply are not 
important enough for  blade  kill. And  should warn : as  demigod,  can be killed by either 
celestial or normal weapons. You are twice as vulnerable." 

"Good  know." 

"Now recap  pen." 

 touched  pen cap   sword tip and instantly Riptide shrank   ballpoint pen again.  tucked 
  my pocket,  little nervous, because  was famous for losing pens at school. 
"You can't," Chiron said. 
"Can't what?" 

"Lose  pen," he said. "It  enchanted. It will always reappear  your pocket. Try ." 

 was wary, but  threw  pen as far as  could down  hill and watched  disappear   grass. 

"It may take  few moments," Chiron told . "Now check your pocket." 

Sure enough,  pen was there. 

"Okay, that's extremely cool,"  admitted. "But what if  mortal sees  pulling out  sword?" 

Chiron smiled. "Mist   powerful thing, Percy." 

"Mist?" 

"Yes. Read The Iliad.  full of references   stuff. Whenever divine or monstrous elements mix 
with  mortal world,  generate Mist, which obscures  vision of humans. You will see things just 
as  are, being  half-blood, but humans will interpret things quite differently. Remarkable, really,  
lengths  which humans will go  fit things into their version of reality." 

 put Riptide back  my pocket. 

For  first time,  quest felt real.  was actually leaving Half-Blood Hill.  was heading west with 
no adult supervision, no backup plan, not even  cell phone. (Chiron said cell phones were traceable by 
monsters; if we used one,  would be worse than sending up  flare.)  had no weapon stronger than  
sword  fight off monsters and reach  Land of  Dead. 

"Chiron ..."  said. "When  say  gods are immortal ...  mean, there was  time before them, 
right?" 



"Four ages before them, actually. The Time of  Titans was  Fourth Age, sometimes called  
Golden Age, which  definitely  misnomer. This,  time of Western civilization and  rule of Zeus, 
  Fifth Age." 

"So what was  like . . . before  gods?" 

Chiron pursed his lips. "Even   not old enough  remember that, child, but  know  was  time 
of darkness and savagery for mortals. Kronos,  lord of  Titans, called his reign  Golden Age 
because men lived innocent and free of all knowledge. But that was mere propaganda. The Titan king 
cared nothing for your kind except as appetizers or  source of cheap entertainment. It was only   
early reign of Lord Zeus, when Prometheus  good Titan brought fire  mankind, that your species 
began  progress, and even then Prometheus was branded  radical thinker. Zeus punished him 
severely, as  may recall. Of course, eventually  gods warmed  humans, and Western civilization 
was born." 

"But  gods can't die now, right?  mean, as long as Western civilization  alive,  alive. So 
. . . even if  failed, nothing could happen so bad  would mess up everything, right?" 

Chiron gave   melancholy smile. "No one knows how long  Age of  West will last, Percy. 
The gods are immortal, yes. But then, so were  Titans. They still exist, locked away  their various 
prisons, forced  endure endless pain and punishment, reduced  power, but still very much alive. May 
 Fates forbid that  gods should ever suffer such  doom, or that we should ever return   
darkness and chaos of  past. All we can do, child,  follow our destiny." 

"Our destiny . . . assuming we know what that ." 

"Relax," Chiron told . "Keep  clear head. And remember,  may be about  prevent  
biggest war  human history." 

"Relax,"  said. " very relaxed." 

When  got   bottom of  hill,  looked back. Under  pine tree that used  be Thalia, 
daughter of Zeus, Chiron was now standing  full horse-man form, holding his bow high  salute. Just 
your typical summer-camp send-off by your typical centaur. 

* * * 

Argus drove us out of  countryside and into western Long Island. It felt weird  be   highway 
again, Annabeth and Grover sitting next   as if we were normal carpoolers. After two weeks at 
Half-Blood Hill,  real world seemed like  fantasy.  found myself staring at every McDonald's, 
every kid   back of his parents' car, every billboard and shopping mall. 

"So far so good,"  told Annabeth. "Ten miles and not  single monster." 

She gave  an irritated look. " bad luck  talk that way, seaweed brain." 

"Remind  again — why do  hate  so much?" 

" don't hate ." 

"Could've fooled ." 

She folded her cap of invisibility. "Look . . . we're just not supposed  get along, okay? Our parents 
are rivals." 

"Why?" 

She sighed. "How many reasons do  want? One time my mom caught Poseidon with his 
girlfriend  Athena's temple, which  hugely disrespectful. Another time, Athena and Poseidon 
competed  be  patron god for  city of Athens. Your dad created some stupid saltwater spring for 
his gift. My mom created  olive tree. The people saw that her gift was better, so  named  city 
after her." 



"They must really like olives." 
"Oh, forget ." 

"Now, if she'd invented pizza — that  could understand." 
" said, forget !" 

In  front seat, Argus smiled. He didn't say anything, but one blue eye   back of his neck 
winked at . 

Traffic slowed us down  Queens. By  time we got into Manhattan  was sunset and starting  
rain. 

Argus dropped us at  Greyhound Station   Upper East Side, not far from my mom and 
Gabe's apartment. Taped   mailbox was  soggy flyer with my picture  : HAVE YOU SEEN 
THIS BOY? 

 ripped  down before Annabeth and Grover could notice. 

Argus unloaded our bags, made sure we got our bus tickets, then drove away,  eye   back of 
his hand opening  watch us as he pulled out of  parking lot. 

 thought about how close  was  my old apartment. On  normal day, my mom would be home 
from  candy store by now. Smelly Gabe was probably up there right now, playing poker, not even 
missing her. 

Grover shouldered his backpack. He gazed down  street   direction  was looking. "You want 
 know why she married him, Percy?" 

 stared at him. "Were  reading my mind or something?" 

"Just your emotions." He shrugged. "Guess  forgot  tell  satyrs can do that. You were thinking 
about your mom and your stepdad, right?" 

 nodded, wondering what else Grover might've forgotten  tell . 

"Your mom married Gabe for ," Grover told . "You call him 'Smelly,' but 've got no idea. 
The guy has  aura. . . . Yuck.  can smell him from here.  can smell traces of him  , and  
haven't been near him for  week." 

"Thanks,"  said. "Where's  nearest shower?" 

"You should be grateful, Percy. Your stepfather smells so repulsively human he could mask  
presence of any demigod. As soon as  took  whiff inside his Camaro,  knew: Gabe has been covering 
your scent for years. If  hadn't lived with him every summer,  probably would 've been found by 
monsters  long time ago. Your mom stayed with him  protect . She was  smart lady. She must've 
loved   lot  put up with that guy — if that makes  feel any better." 

It didn't, but  forced myself not  show . 'll see her again,  thought. She isn't gone. 

 wondered if Grover could still read my emotions, mixed up as  were.  was glad he and 
Annabeth were with , but  felt guilty that  hadn't been straight with them.  hadn't told them  real 
reason 'd said yes   crazy quest. 

The truth was,  didn't care about retrieving Zeus's lightning bolt, or saving  world, or even 
helping my father out of trouble. The more  thought about ,  resented Poseidon for never visiting , 
never helping my mom, never even sending  lousy child-support check. He'd only claimed  because 
he needed  job done. 

All  cared about was my mom. Hades had taken her unfairly, and Hades was going  give her 
back. 

You will be betrayed by one who calls   friend,  Oracle whispered  my mind. You will fail 



 save what matters most   end. 
Shut up,  told . 
The rain kept coming down. 

We got restless waiting for  bus and decided  play some Hacky Sack with one of Grover's 
apples. Annabeth was unbelievable. She could bounce  apple off her knee, her elbow, her shoulder, 
whatever.  wasn't too bad myself. 

The game ended when  tossed  apple toward Grover and  got too close  his mouth. In one 
mega goat bite, our Hacky Sack disappeared — core, stem, and all. 

Grover blushed. He tried  apologize, but Annabeth and  were too busy cracking up. 

Finally  bus came. As we stood  line  board, Grover started looking around, sniffing  air 
like he smelled his favorite school cafeteria delicacy — enchiladas. 
"What  ?"  asked. 

" don't know," he said tensely. "Maybe  nothing." 

But  could tell  wasn't nothing.  started looking over my shoulder, too. 

 was relieved when we finally got  board and found seats together   back of  bus. We 
stowed our backpacks. Annabeth kept slapping her Yankees cap nervously against her thigh. 
As  last passengers got , Annabeth clamped her hand onto my knee. "Percy." 

An old lady had just boarded  bus. She wore  crumpled velvet dress, lace gloves, and  shapeless 
orange-knit hat that shadowed her face, and she carried  big paisley purse. When she tilted her head up, 
her black eyes glittered, and my heart skipped  beat. 

It was Mrs. Dodds. Older, more withered, but definitely  same evil face. 

 scrunched down  my seat. 

Behind her came two more old ladies: one   green hat, one   purple hat. Otherwise  looked 
exactly like Mrs. Dodds — same gnarled hands, paisley handbags, wrinkled velvet dresses. Triplet 
demon grandmothers. 

They sat   front row, right behind  driver. The two   aisle crossed their legs over  
walkway, making an X. It was casual enough, but  sent  clear message: nobody leaves. 

The bus pulled out of  station, and we headed through  slick streets of Manhattan. "She didn't 
stay dead long,"  said, trying  keep my voice from quivering. " thought  said  could be 
dispelled for  lifetime." 

" said if 're lucky," Annabeth said. "You're obviously not." 
"All three of them," Grover whimpered. "Di immortales! " 

" okay," Annabeth said, obviously thinking hard. "The Furies. The three worst monsters from  
Underworld. No problem. No problem. We'll just slip out  windows." 

"They don't open," Grover moaned. 

"A back exit?" she suggested. 

There wasn't one. Even if there had been,  wouldn't have helped. By that time, we were  Ninth 
Avenue, heading for  Lincoln Tunnel. 

"They won't attack us with witnesses around,"  said. "Will ?" 

"Mortals don't have good eyes," Annabeth reminded . "Their brains can only process what  
see through  Mist." 

"They'll see three old ladies killing us, won't ?" 



She thought about . "Hard  say. But we can't count  mortals for help. Maybe an emergency 
exit   roof . . . ?" 

We hit  Lincoln Tunnel, and  bus went dark except for  running lights down  aisle. It was 
eerily quiet without  sound of  rain. 

Mrs. Dodds got up. In  flat voice, as if she'd rehearsed , she announced   whole bus: " need 
 use  rest-room." 

"So do ," said  second sister. 

"So do ," said  third sister. 

They all started coming down  aisle. 

"'ve got ," Annabeth said. "Percy, take my hat." 

"What?" 

"You're  one  want. Turn invisible and go up  aisle. Let them pass . Maybe  can get 
  front and get away." 

"But  guys — " 

"There's an outside chance  might not notice us," Annabeth said. "You're  son of one of  
Big Three. Your smell might be overpowering." 

" can't just leave ." 

"Don't worry about us," Grover said. "Go!" 

My hands trembled.  felt like  coward, but  took  Yankees cap and put  . 
When  looked down, my body wasn't there anymore. 

 started creeping up  aisle.  managed  get up ten rows, then duck into an empty seat just as  
Furies walked past. 

Mrs. Dodds stopped, sniffing, and looked straight at . My heart was pounding. 
Apparently she didn't see anything. She and her sisters kept going. 

 was free.  made    front of  bus. We were almost through  Lincoln Tunnel now.  was 
about  press  emergency stop button when  heard hideous wailing from  back row. 

The old ladies were not old ladies anymore. Their faces were still  same —  guess those couldn't 
get any uglier — but their bodies had shriveled into leathery brown hag bodies with bat's wings and 
hands and feet like gargoyle claws. Their handbags had turned into fiery whips. 

The Furies surrounded Grover and Annabeth, lashing their whips, hissing: "Where  ? Where?" 
The other people   bus were screaming, cowering  their seats. They saw something, all right. 
"He's not here!" Annabeth yelled. "He's gone!" 
The Furies raised their whips. 

Annabeth drew her bronze knife. Grover grabbed  tin can from his snack bag and prepared  throw 

. 

What  did next was so impulsive and dangerous  should've been named ADHD poster child of  
year. 

The bus driver was distracted, trying  see what was going   his rearview mirror. 

Still invisible,  grabbed  wheel from him and jerked    left. Everybody howled as  
were thrown   right, and  heard what  hoped was  sound of three Furies smashing against  
windows. 

"Hey!"  driver yelled. "Hey— whoa!" 



We wrestled for  wheel. The bus slammed against  side of  tunnel, grinding metal, throwing 
sparks  mile behind us. 

We careened out of  Lincoln Tunnel and back into  rainstorm, people and monsters tossed 
around  bus, cars plowed aside like bowling pins. 

Somehow  driver found an exit. We shot off  highway, through half  dozen traffic lights, and 
ended up barreling down one of those New Jersey rural roads where  can't believe there's so much 
nothing right across  river from New York. There were woods  our left,  Hudson River  our 
right, and  driver seemed  be veering toward  river. 

Another great idea:  hit  emergency brake. 

The bus wailed, spun  full circle   wet asphalt, and crashed into  trees. The emergency 
lights came . The door flew open. The bus driver was  first one out,  passengers yelling as  
stampeded after him.  stepped into  driver's seat and let them pass. 

The Furies regained their balance. They lashed their whips at Annabeth while she waved her knife 
and yelled  Ancient Greek, telling them  back off. Grover threw tin cans. 

 looked at  open doorway.  was free  go, but  couldn't leave my friends.  took off  
invisible cap. "Hey!" 

The Furies turned, baring their yellow fangs at , and  exit suddenly seemed like an excellent 
idea. Mrs. Dodds stalked up  aisle, just as she used  do  class, about  deliver my F- math test. 
Every time she flicked her whip, red flames danced along  barbed leather. 

Her two ugly sisters hopped  top of  seats  either side of her and crawled toward  like 
huge nasty lizards. 

"Perseus Jackson," Mrs. Dodds said,  an accent that was definitely from somewhere farther south 
than Georgia. "You have offended  gods. You shall die." 

" liked  better as  math teacher,"  told her. 

She growled. 

Annabeth and Grover moved up behind  Furies cautiously, looking for an opening. 

 took  ballpoint pen out of my pocket and uncapped . Riptide elongated into  shimmering 
double-edged sword. 

The Furies hesitated. 

Mrs. Dodds had felt Riptide's blade before. She obviously didn't like seeing  again. 

"Submit now," she hissed. "And  will not suffer eternal torment." 

"Nice try,"  told her. 

"Percy, look out!" Annabeth cried. 

Mrs. Dodds lashed her whip around my sword hand while  Furies   either side lunged at . 

My hand felt like  was wrapped  molten lead, but  managed not  drop Riptide.  stuck  Fury 
  left with its hilt, sending her toppling backward into  seat.  turned and sliced  Fury   
right. As soon as  blade connected with her neck, she screamed and exploded into dust. Annabeth got 
Mrs. Dodds   wrestler's hold and yanked her backward while Grover ripped  whip out of her 
hands. 

"Ow!" he yelled. "Ow! Hot! Hot!" 

The Fury 'd hilt-slammed came at  again, talons ready, but  swung Riptide and she broke open 
like  pinata. 

Mrs. Dodds was trying  get Annabeth off her back. She kicked, clawed, hissed and bit, but 



Annabeth held  while Grover got Mrs. Dodds's legs tied up  her own whip. Finally  both 
shoved her backward into  aisle. Mrs. Dodds tried  get up, but she didn't have room  flap her bat 
wings, so she kept falling down. 

"Zeus will destroy !" she promised. "Hades will have your soul!" 

"Braccas meas vescimini!"  yelled. 

 wasn't sure where  Latin came from.  think  meant "Eat my pants!" 

Thunder shook  bus. The hair rose   back of my neck. 

"Get out!" Annabeth yelled at . "Now!"  didn't need any encouragement. 

We rushed outside and found  other passengers wandering around   daze, arguing with  
driver, or running around  circles yelling, "We're going  die!" A Hawaiianshirted tourist with  
camera snapped my photograph before  could recap my sword. 

"Our bags!" Grover realized. "We left our — " 

BOOOOOM! 

The windows of  bus exploded as  passengers ran for cover. Lightning shredded  huge crater 
  roof, but an angry wail from inside told  Mrs. Dodds was not yet dead. 

"Run!" Annabeth said. "She's calling for reinforcements! We have  get out of here!" 
We plunged into  woods as  rain poured down,  bus  flames behind us, and nothing but 
darkness ahead. 

In  way,  nice  know there are Greek gods out there, because  have somebody  blame 
when things go wrong. For instance, when 're walking away from  bus that's just been attacked by 
monster hags and blown up by lightning, and  raining  top of everything else, most people might 
think that's just really bad luck; when 're  half-blood,  understand that some divine force really 
 trying  mess up your day. 

So there we were, Annabeth and Grover and , walking through  woods along  New Jersey 
riverbank,  glow of New York City making  night sky yellow behind us, and  smell of  
Hudson reeking  our noses. 

Grover was shivering and braying, his big goat eyes turned slit-pupiled and full of terror. "Three 
Kindly Ones. All three at once." 

 was pretty much  shock myself. The explosion of bus windows still rang  my ears. But 
Annabeth kept pulling us along, saying: "Come ! The farther away we get,  better." 

"All our money was back there,"  reminded her. "Our food and clothes. Everything." 

"Well, maybe if  hadn't decided  jump into  fight — " 

"What did  want   do? Let  get killed?" 

"You didn't need  protect , Percy.  would 've been fine." 

"Sliced like sandwich bread," Grover put , "but fine." 

"Shut up, goat boy," said Annabeth. 

Grover brayed mournfully. "Tin cans ...  perfectly good bag of tin cans." 

We sloshed across mushy ground, through nasty twisted trees that smelled like sour laundry. 

After  few minutes, Annabeth fell into line next  . "Look,  . . ." Her voice faltered. " 
appreciate your coming back for us, okay? That was really brave." 

"We're  team, right?" 

She was silent for  few more steps. " just that if  died . . . aside from  fact that  would 
really suck for ,  would mean  quest was over. This may be my only chance  see  real 
world." 

The thunderstorm had finally let up. The city glow faded behind us, leaving us  almost total 
darkness.  couldn't see anything of Annabeth except  glint of her blond hair. 

"You haven't left Camp Half-Blood since  were seven?"  asked her. 

"No . . . only short field trips. My dad — " 

"The history professor." 

"Yeah. It didn't work out for  living at home.  mean, Camp Half-Blood  my home." She was 
rushing her words out now, as if she were afraid somebody might try  stop her. "At camp  train 
and train. And that's all cool and everything, but  real world  where  monsters are. That's where 



 learn whether 're any good or not." 

If  didn't know better,  could've sworn  heard doubt  her voice. 
"You're pretty good with that knife,"  said. 
"You think so?" 

"Anybody who can piggyback-ride  Fury  okay by ." 
 couldn't really see, but  thought she might've smiled. 

"You know," she said, "maybe  should tell  . . . Something funny back   bus . . ." 
Whatever she wanted  say was interrupted by  shrill toot-toot-toot, like  sound of an owl being 
tortured. 

"Hey, my reed pipes still work!" Grover cried. "If  could just remember  'find path' song, we 
could get out of these woods!" 

He puffed out  few notes, but  tune still sounded suspiciously like Hilary Duff. 

Instead of finding  path,  immediately slammed into  tree and got  nice-size knot  my head. 

Add   list of superpowers  did not have: infrared vision. 

After tripping and cursing and generally feeling miserable for another mile or so,  started  see 
light up ahead:  colors of  neon sign.  could smell food. Fried, greasy, excellent food.  realized  
hadn't eaten anything unhealthy since 'd arrived at Half-Blood Hill, where we lived  grapes, bread, 
cheese, and extra-lean-cut nymph-prepared barbecue. This boy needed  double cheeseburger. 

We kept walking until  saw  deserted two-lane road through  trees. On  other side was  
closed-down gas station,  tattered billboard for  1990s movie, and one open business, which was  
source of  neon light and  good smell. 

It wasn't  fast-food restaurant like 'd hoped. It was one of those weird roadside curio shops that 
sell lawn flamingos and wooden Indians and cement grizzly bears and stuff like that. The main building 
was  long, low warehouse, surrounded by acres of statuary. The neon sign above  gate was 
impossible for   read, because if there's anything worse for my dyslexia than regular English,  
red cursive neon English. 

To ,  looked like: ATNYU MES GDERAN GOMEN MEPROUIM. 

"What  heck does that say?"  asked. 

" don't know," Annabeth said. 

She loved reading so much, 'd forgotten she was dyslexic, too. 
Grover translated: "Aunty Em's Garden Gnome Emporium." 

Flanking  entrance, as advertised, were two cement garden gnomes, ugly bearded little runts, 
smiling and waving, as if  were about  get their picture taken. 

 crossed  street, following  smell of  hamburgers. 

"Hey . . ." Grover warned. 

"The lights are  inside," Annabeth said. "Maybe  open." 
"Snack bar,"  said wistfully. 
"Snack bar," she agreed. 

"Are  two crazy?" Grover said. "This place  weird." 
We ignored him. 

The front lot was  forest of statues: cement animals, cement children, even  cement satyr playing 
 pipes, which gave Grover  creeps. 



"Bla-ha-ha!" he bleated. "Looks like my Uncle Ferdinand!" 

We stopped at  warehouse door. 

"Don't knock," Grover pleaded. " smell monsters." 

"Your nose  clogged up from  Furies," Annabeth told him. "All  smell  burgers. Aren't  
hungry?" 

"Meat!" he said scornfully. "  vegetarian." 

"You eat cheese enchiladas and aluminum cans,"  reminded him. 

"Those are vegetables. Come . Let's leave. These statues are . . . looking at ." 

Then  door creaked open, and standing  front of us was  tall Middle Eastern woman — at least, 
 assumed she was Middle Eastern, because she wore  long black gown that covered everything but her 
hands, and her head was completely veiled. Her eyes glinted behind  curtain of black gauze, but that 
was about all  could make out. Her coffee-colored hands looked old, but well-manicured and elegant, 
so  imagined she was  grandmother who had once been  beautiful lady. 

Her accent sounded vaguely Middle Eastern, too. She said, "Children,   too late  be out all 
alone. Where are your parents?" 

"They're . . . um . . ." Annabeth started  say. 

"We're orphans,"  said. 

"Orphans?"  woman said. The word sounded alien  her mouth. "But, my dears! Surely not!" 

"We got separated from our caravan,"  said. "Our circus caravan. The ringmaster told us  meet 
him at  gas station if we got lost, but he may have forgotten, or maybe he meant  different gas 
station. Anyway, we're lost. Is that food  smell?" 

"Oh, my dears,"  woman said. "You must come , poor children.   Aunty Em. Go straight 
through   back of  warehouse, please. There   dining area." 

We thanked her and went inside. 
Annabeth muttered  , "Circus caravan?" 
"Always have  strategy, right?" 
"Your head  full of kelp." 

The warehouse was filled with more statues — people  all different poses, wearing all different 
outfits and with different expressions  their faces.  was thinking 'd have  have  pretty huge 
garden  fit even one of these statues, because  were all life-size. But mostly,  was thinking about 
food. 

Go ahead, call  an idiot for walking into  strange lady's shop like that just because  was hungry, 
but  do impulsive stuff sometimes. Plus, 've never smelled Aunty Em's burgers. The aroma was 
like laughing gas   dentist's chair —  made everything else go away.  barely noticed Graver's 
nervous whimpers, or  way  statues' eyes seemed  follow , or  fact that Aunty Em had 
locked  door behind us. 

All  cared about was finding  dining area. And sure enough, there  was at  back of  
warehouse,  fast-food counter with  grill,  soda fountain,  pretzel heater, and  nacho cheese 
dispenser. Everything  could want, plus  few steel picnic tables out front. 

"Please, sit down," Aunty Em said. 

"Awesome,"  said. 

"Um," Grover said reluctantly, "we don't have any money, ma'am." 

Before  could jab him   ribs, Aunty Em said, "No, no, children. No money. This   special 



case, yes? It  my treat, for such nice orphans." 
"Thank , ma'am," Annabeth said. 

Aunty Em stiffened, as if Annabeth had done something wrong, but then  old woman relaxed just 
as quickly, so  figured  must've been my imagination. 

"Quite all right, Annabeth," she said. "You have such beautiful gray eyes, child." Only later did  
wonder how she knew Annabeth 's name, even though we had never introduced ourselves. 

Our hostess disappeared behind  snack counter and started cooking. Before we knew , she'd 
brought us plastic trays heaped with double cheeseburgers, vanilla shakes, and XXL servings of French 
fries. 

 was halfway through my burger before  remembered  breathe. 
Annabeth slurped her shake. 

Grover picked at  fries, and eyed  tray's waxed paper liner as if he might go for that, but he 
still looked too nervous  eat. 

"What's that hissing noise?" he asked. 

 listened, but didn't hear anything. Annabeth shook her head. 

"Hissing?" Aunty Em asked. "Perhaps  hear  deep-fryer oil. You have keen ears, Grover." 

" take vitamins. For my ears." 

"That's admirable," she said. "But please, relax." 

Aunty Em ate nothing. She hadn't taken off her headdress, even  cook, and now she sat forward 
and interlaced her fingers and watched us eat. It was  little unsettling, having someone stare at  
when  couldn't see her face, but  was feeling satisfied after  burger, and  little sleepy, and  figured 
 least  could do was try  make small talk with our hostess. 

"So,  sell gnomes,"  said, trying  sound interested. 

"Oh, yes," Aunty Em said. "And animals. And people. Anything for  garden. Custom orders. 
Statuary  very popular,  know." 

"A lot of business   road?" 

"Not so much, no. Since  highway was built . . . most cars,  do not go  way now.  must 
cherish every customer  get." 

My neck tingled, as if somebody else was looking at .  turned, but  was just  statue of  young 
girl holding an Easter basket. The detail was incredible, much better than  see  most garden 
statues. But something was wrong with her face. It looked as if she were startled, or even terrified. 

"Ah," Aunty Em said sadly. "You notice some of my creations do not turn out well. They are 
marred. They do not sell. The face   hardest  get right. Always  face." 

"You make these statues yourself ?"  asked. 

"Oh, yes. Once upon  time,  had two sisters  help    business, but  have passed , 
and Aunty Em  alone.  have only my statues. This  why  make them,  see. They are my 
company." The sadness  her voice sounded so deep and so real that  couldn't help feeling sorry for 
her. 

Annabeth had stopped eating. She sat forward and said, "Two sisters?" 

"  terrible story," Aunty Em said. "Not one for children, really. You see, Annabeth,  bad 
woman was jealous of , long ago, when  was young.  had  ...  boyfriend,  know, and  bad 
woman was determined  break us apart. She caused  terrible accident. My sisters stayed by . They 
shared my bad fortune as long as  could, but eventually  passed . They faded away.  alone 



have survived, but at  price. Such  price." 

 wasn't sure what she meant, but  felt bad for her. My eyelids kept getting heavier, my full stomach 
making  sleepy. Poor old lady. Who would want  hurt somebody so nice? 

"Percy?" Annabeth was shaking   get my attention. 

"Maybe we should go.  mean,  ringmaster will be waiting." 

She sounded tense.  wasn't sure why. Grover was eating  waxed paper off  tray now, but if 
Aunty Em found that strange, she didn't say anything. 

"Such beautiful gray eyes," Aunty Em told Annabeth again. "My, yes,  has been  long time since 
've seen gray eyes like those." 

She reached out as if  stroke Annabeth's cheek, but Annabeth stood up abruptly. 
"We really should go." 

"Yes!" Grover swallowed his waxed paper and stood up. "The ringmaster  waiting! Right!" 

 didn't want  leave.  felt full and content. Aunty Em was so nice.  wanted  stay with her  
while. 

"Please, dears," Aunty Em pleaded. " so rarely get  be with children. Before  go, won't  at 
least sit for  pose?" 

"A pose?" Annabeth asked warily. 

"A photograph.  will use   model  new statue set. Children are so popular,  see. Everyone 
loves children." 

Annabeth shifted her weight from foot  foot. " don't think we can, ma'am. Come , Percy — " 

"Sure we can,"  said.  was irritated with Annabeth for being so bossy, so rude  an old lady who'd 
just fed us for free. " just  photo, Annabeth. What's  harm?" 
"Yes, Annabeth,"  woman purred. "No harm." 

 could tell Annabeth didn't like , but she allowed Aunty Em  lead us back out  front door, 
into  garden of statues. 

Aunty Em directed us   park bench next   stone satyr. "Now," she said, "'ll just position  
correctly. The young girl   middle,  think, and  two young gentlemen  either side." 

"Not much light for  photo,"  remarked. 

"Oh, enough," Aunty Em said. "Enough for us  see each other, yes?" 
"Where's your camera?" Grover asked. 

Aunty Em stepped back, as if  admire  shot. "Now,  face   most difficult. Can  smile 
for  please, everyone? A large smile?" 

Grover glanced at  cement satyr next  him, and mumbled, "That sure does look like Uncle 
Ferdinand." 

"Grover," Aunty Em chastised, "look  way, dear." 
She still had no camera  her hands. 
"Percy — " Annabeth said. 

Some instinct warned   listen  Annabeth, but  was fighting  sleepy feeling,  
comfortable lull that came from  food and  old lady's voice. 

" will just be  moment," Aunty Em said. "You know,  can't see  very well   cursed veil. . 

"Percy, something's wrong," Annabeth insisted. 



"Wrong?" Aunty Em said, reaching up  undo  wrap around her head. "Not at all, dear.  have 
such noble company tonight. What could be wrong?" 

"That  Uncle Ferdinand!" Grover gasped. 

"Look away from her!" Annabeth shouted. She whipped her Yankees cap onto her head and 
vanished. Her invisible hands pushed Grover and  both off  bench. 
 was   ground, looking at Aunt Em's sandaled feet. 

 could hear Grover scrambling off  one direction, Annabeth  another. But  was too dazed  
move. 

Then  heard  strange, rasping sound above . My eyes rose  Aunty Em's hands, which had 
turned gnarled and warty, with sharp bronze talons for fingernails. 

 almost looked higher, but somewhere off  my left Annabeth screamed, "No! Don't!" 
More rasping —  sound of tiny snakes, right above , from . . . from about where Aunty Em's 
head would be. 

"Run!" Grover bleated.  heard him racing across  gravel, yelling, "Maia!"  kick-start his 
flying sneakers. 

 couldn't move.  stared at Aunty Em's gnarled claws, and tried  fight  groggy trance  old 
woman had put  . 

"Such  pity  destroy  handsome young face," she told  soothingly. "Stay with , Percy. All 
 have  do  look up." 

 fought  urge  obey. Instead  looked  one side and saw one of those glass spheres people put 
 gardens —  gazing ball.  could see Aunty Em's dark reflection   orange glass; her headdress 
was gone, revealing her face as  shimmering pale circle. Her hair was moving, writhing like serpents. 

Aunty Em. 

Aunty "M." 

How could  have been so stupid? 

Think,  told myself. How did Medusa die   myth? 

But  couldn't think. Something told  that   myth Medusa had been asleep when she was 
attacked by my namesake, Perseus. She wasn't anywhere near asleep now. If she wanted, she could take 
those talons right now and rake open my face. 

"The Gray-Eyed One did   , Percy," Medusa said, and she didn't sound anything like  
monster. Her voice invited   look up,  sympathize with  poor old grandmother. "Annabeth's 
mother,  cursed Athena, turned  from  beautiful woman into ." 

"Don't listen  her!" Annabeth's voice shouted, somewhere   statuary. "Run, Percy!" 

"Silence!" Medusa snarled. Then her voice modulated back   comforting purr. "You see why  
must destroy  girl, Percy. She  my enemy's daughter.  shall crush her statue  dust. But , dear 
Percy,  need not suffer." 

"No,"  muttered.  tried  make my legs move. 

"Do  really want  help  gods?" Medusa asked. "Do  understand what awaits    
foolish quest, Percy? What will happen if  reach  Underworld? Do not be  pawn of  
Olympians, my dear. You would be better off as  statue. Less pain. Less pain." 

"Percy!" Behind ,  heard  buzzing sound, like  two-hundred-pound hummingbird   
nosedive. Grover yelled, "Duck!" 

 turned, and there he was   night sky, flying  from twelve o'clock with his winged shoes 



fluttering, Grover, holding  tree branch  size of  baseball bat. His eyes were shut tight, his head 
twitched from side  side. He was navigating by ears and nose alone. 
"Duck!" he yelled again. "'ll get her!" 

That finally jolted  into action. Knowing Grover,  was sure he'd miss Medusa and nail .  
dove  one side. 
Thwack! 

At first  figured  was  sound of Grover hitting  tree. Then Medusa roared with rage. 
"You miserable satyr," she snarled. "'ll add   my collection!" 
"That was for Uncle Ferdinand!" Grover yelled back. 

 scrambled away and hid   statuary while Grover swooped down for another pass. 
Ker- whack! 

"Arrgh!" Medusa yelled, her snake-hair hissing and spitting. 
Right next  , Annabeth's voice said, "Percy!" 

 jumped so high my feet nearly cleared  garden gnome. "Jeez! Don't do that!" 
Annabeth took off her Yankees cap and became visible. "You have  cut her head off." 
"What? Are  crazy? Let's get out of here." 

"Medusa   menace. She's evil. 'd kill her myself, but . . ." Annabeth swallowed, as if she were 
about  make  difficult admission. "But 've got  better weapon. Besides, 'd never get close  
her. She'd slice   bits because of my mother. You — 've got  chance." 

"What?  can't—" 

"Look, do  want her turning more innocent people into statues?" 

She pointed   pair of statue lovers,  man and  woman with their arms around each other, turned 
 stone by  monster. 

Annabeth grabbed  green gazing ball from  nearby pedestal. "A polished shield would be better." 
She studied  sphere critically. "The convexity will cause some distortion. The reflection's size should 
be off by  factor of — " 

"Would  speak English?" 

" ami" She tossed   glass ball. "Just look at her   glass. Never look at her directly." 
"Hey, guys!" Grover yelled somewhere above us. " think she's unconscious!" 
"Roooaaarrrl" 

"Maybe not," Grover corrected. He went  for another pass with  tree branch. 
"Hurry," Annabeth told . "Grover's got  great nose, but he'll eventually crash." 
 took out my pen and uncapped . The bronze blade of Riptide elongated  my hand. 
 followed  hissing and spitting sounds of Medusa's hair. 

 kept my eyes locked   gazing ball so  would only glimpse Medusa's reflection, not  real 
thing. Then,   green tinted glass,  saw her. 

Grover was coming  for another turn at bat, but  time he flew  little too low. Medusa grabbed 
 stick and pulled him off course. He tumbled through  air and crashed into  arms of  stone 
grizzly bear with  painful "Ummphh!" 

Medusa was about  lunge at him when  yelled, "Hey!" 

 advanced  her, which wasn't easy, holding  sword and  glass ball. If she charged, 'd have  
hard time defending myself. 



But she let  approach — twenty feet, ten feet. 

 could see  reflection of her face now. Surely  wasn't really that ugly. The green swirls of  
gazing ball must be distorting , making  look worse. 

"You wouldn't harm an old woman, Percy," she crooned. " know  wouldn't." 
 hesitated, fascinated by  face  saw reflected   glass —  eyes that seemed  burn straight 
through  green tint, making my arms go weak. 

From  cement grizzly, Grover moaned, "Percy, don't listen  her!" 
Medusa cackled. "Too late." 
She lunged at  with her talons. 

 slashed up with my sword, heard  sickening shlock!, then  hiss like wind rushing out of  cavern 
—  sound of  monster disintegrating. 

Something fell   ground next  my foot. It took all my willpower not  look.  could feel warm 
ooze soaking into my sock, little dying snake heads tugging at my shoelaces. 

"Oh, yuck," Grover said. His eyes were still tightly closed, but  guess he could hear  thing 
gurgling and steaming. "Mega-yuck." 

Annabeth came up next  , her eyes fixed   sky. She was holding Medusa's black veil. She 
said, "Don't move." 

Very, very carefully, without looking down, she knelt and draped  monster's head  black cloth, 
then picked  up. It was still dripping green juice. 

"Are  okay?" she asked , her voice trembling. 

"Yeah,"  decided, though  felt like throwing up my double cheeseburger. "Why didn't . . . why 
didn't  head evaporate?" 

"Once  sever ,  becomes  spoil of war," she said. "Same as your minotaur horn. But don't 
unwrap  head. It can still petrify ." 

Grover moaned as he climbed down from  grizzly statue. He had  big welt  his forehead. His 
green rasta cap hung from one of his little goat horns, and his fake feet had been knocked off his 
hooves. The magic sneakers were flying aimlessly around his head. 

"The Red Baron,"  said. "Good job, man." 

He managed  bashful grin. "That really was not fun, though. Well,  hitting-her-with--stick part, 
that was fun. But crashing into  concrete bear? Not fun." 

He snatched his shoes out of  air.  recapped my sword. Together,  three of us stumbled back 
  warehouse. 

We found some old plastic grocery bags behind  snack counter and double-wrapped Medusa's 
head. We plopped    table where we'd eaten dinner and sat around , too exhausted  speak. 

Finally  said, "So we have Athena  thank for  monster?" 

Annabeth flashed  an irritated look. "Your dad, actually. Don't  remember? Medusa was 
Poseidon's girlfriend. They decided  meet  my mother's temple. That's why Athena turned her into  
monster. Medusa and her two sisters who had helped her get into  temple,  became  three 
gorgons. That's why Medusa wanted  slice  up, but she wanted  preserve  as  nice statue. 
She's still sweet  your dad. You probably reminded her of him." 

My face was burning. "Oh, so now  my fault we met Medusa." 

Annabeth straightened. In  bad imitation of my voice, she said: '" just  photo, Annabeth. 
What's  harm?'" 



"Forget ,"  said. "You're impossible." 

"You're insufferable." 

"You're—" 

"Hey!" Grover interrupted. "You two are giving   migraine, and satyrs don't even get migraines. 
What are we going  do with  head?" 

 stared at  thing. One little snake was hanging out of  hole   plastic. The words printed  
 side of  bag said: WE APPRECIATE YOUR BUSINESS! 

 was angry, not just with Annabeth or her mom, but with all  gods for  whole quest, for 
getting us blown off  road and  two major fights  very first day out from camp. At  rate, we'd 
never make   L.A. alive, much less before  summer solstice. 

What had Medusa said? 

Do not be  pawn of  Olympians, my dear. You would be better off as  statue. 
 got up. "'ll be back." 

"Percy," Annabeth called after . "What are  — " 

 searched  back of  warehouse until  found Medusa's office. Her account book showed her 
six most recent sales, all shipments   Underworld  decorate Hades and Persephone's garden. 
According  one freight bill,  Underworld's billing address was DOA Recording Studios, West 
Hollywood, California.  folded up  bill and stuffed   my pocket. 

In  cash register  found twenty dollars,  few golden drachmas, and some packing slips for 
Hermes Overnight Express, each with  little leather bag attached for coins.  rummaged around  rest 
of  office until  found  right-size box. 

 went back   picnic table, packed up Medusa's head, and filled out  delivery slip: 

The Gods 
Mount Olympus 
600th Floor, 
Empire State Building 
New York, NY 

With best wishes, 
PERCY JACKSON 

"They're not going  like that," Grover warned. "They'll think 're impertinent." 

 poured some golden drachmas   pouch. As soon as  closed , there was  sound like  cash 
register. The package floated off  table and disappeared with  pop! 
"  impertinent,"  said. 
 looked at Annabeth, daring her  criticize. 

She didn't. She seemed resigned   fact that  had  major talent for ticking off  gods. "Come 
," she muttered. "We need  new plan." 

We were pretty miserable that night. 

We camped out   woods,  hundred yards from  main road,   marshy clearing that local 
kids had obviously been using for parties. The ground was littered with flattened soda cans and fast- 
food wrappers. 

We'd taken some food and blankets from Aunty Em's, but we didn't dare light  fire  dry our damp 
clothes. The Furies and Medusa had provided enough excitement for one day. We didn't want  attract 
anything else. 

We decided  sleep  shifts.  volunteered  take first watch. 

Annabeth curled up   blankets and was snoring as soon as her head hit  ground. Grover 
fluttered with his flying shoes   lowest bough of  tree, put his back   trunk, and stared at  
night sky. 

"Go ahead and sleep,"  told him. "'ll wake  if there's trouble." He nodded, but still didn't close 
his eyes. "It makes  sad, Percy." 

"What does? The fact that  signed up for  stupid quest?" 

"No. This makes  sad." He pointed at all  garbage   ground. "And  sky. You can't even 
see  stars. They've polluted  sky. This   terrible time  be  satyr." 

"Oh, yeah.  guess 'd be an environmentalist." 

He glared at . "Only  human wouldn't be. Your species  clogging up  world so fast ... ah, 
never mind.  useless  lecture  human. At  rate things are going, 'll never find Pan." 

"Pam? Like  cooking spray?" 

"Pan!" he cried indignantly. "P-A-N. The great god Pan! What do  think  want  searcher's 
license for?" 

A strange breeze rustled through  clearing, temporarily overpowering  stink of trash and muck. 
It brought  smell of berries and wildflowers and clean rainwater, things that might've once been  
these woods. Suddenly  was nostalgic for something 'd never known. 

"Tell  about  search,"  said. 

Grover looked at  cautiously, as if he were afraid  was just making fun. 

"The God of Wild Places disappeared two thousand years ago," he told . "A sailor off  coast of 
Ephesos heard  mysterious voice crying out from  shore, 'Tell them that  great god Pan has died!' 
When humans heard  news,  believed . They've been pillaging Pan's kingdom ever since. But 
for  satyrs, Pan was our lord and master. He protected us and  wild places of  earth. We refuse 
 believe that he died. In every generation,  bravest satyrs pledge their lives  finding Pan. They 
search  earth, exploring all  wildest places, hoping  find where he  hidden, and wake him from 
his sleep." 

"And  want  be  searcher." 



" my life's dream," he said. "My father was  searcher. And my Uncle Ferdinand ...  statue  
saw back there — " 

"Oh, right, sorry." 

Grover shook his head. "Uncle Ferdinand knew  risks. So did my dad. But 'll succeed. 'll be  
first searcher  return alive." 
"Hang  —  first?" 

Grover took his reed pipes out of his pocket. "No searcher has ever come back. Once  set out, 
 disappear. They're never seen alive again." 

"Not once  two thousand years?" 

"No." 

"And your dad? You have no idea what happened  him?" 
"None." 

"But  still want  go,"  said, amazed. " mean,  really think 'll be  one  find Pan?" 

" have  believe that, Percy. Every searcher does.   only thing that keeps us from despair 
when we look at what humans have done   world.  have  believe Pan can still be awakened." 

 stared at  orange haze of  sky and tried  understand how Grover could pursue  dream that 
seemed so hopeless. Then again, was  any better? 

"How are we going  get into  Underworld?"  asked him. " mean, what chance do we have 
against  god?" 

" don't know," he admitted. "But back at Medusa's, when  were searching her office? 
Annabeth was telling  — " 

"Oh,  forgot. Annabeth will have  plan all figured out." 

"Don't be so hard  her, Percy. She's had  tough life, but she's  good person. After all, she forgave 
...." His voice faltered. 

"What do  mean?"  asked. "Forgave  for what?" Suddenly, Grover seemed very interested  
playing notes  his pipes. 

"Wait  minute,"  said. "Your first keeper job was five years ago. Annabeth has been at camp five 
years. She wasn't ...  mean, your first assignment that went wrong — " 

" can't talk about ," Grover said, and his quivering lower lip suggested he'd start crying if  pressed 
him. "But as  was saying, back at Medusa's, Annabeth and  agreed there's something strange going  
with  quest. Something isn't what  seems." 

"Well, duh.  getting blamed for stealing  thunderbolt that Hades took." 

"That's not what  mean," Grover said. "The Fur — The Kindly Ones were sort of holding back. Like 
Mrs. Dodds at Yancy Academy ... why did she wait so long  try  kill ? Then   bus,  just 
weren't as aggressive as  could've been." 

"They seemed plenty aggressive  ." 

Grover shook his head. "They were screeching at us: 'Where  ? Where?'" 
"Asking about ,"  said. 

"Maybe ... but Annabeth and , we both got  feeling  weren't asking about  person. They 
said 'Where  ? 1 They seemed  be asking about an object." 

"That doesn't make sense." 

" know. But if we've misunderstood something about  quest, and we only have nine days  find 



 master bolt...." He looked at  like he was hoping for answers, but  didn't have any.  thought 
about what Medusa had said:  was being used by  gods. What lay ahead of  was worse than 
petrification. " haven't been straight with ," 1 told Grover. " don't care about  master bolt.  
agreed  go   Underworld so  could bring back my mother." Grover blew  soft note  his pipes. 
" know that, Percy. But are  sure that's  only reason?" 

" not doing   help my father. He doesn't care about .  don't care about him." Grover gazed 
down from his tree branch. "Look, Percy,  not as smart as Annabeth.  not as brave as . But  
pretty good at reading emotions. You're glad your dad  alive. You feel good that he's claimed , and 
part of  wants  make him proud. That's why  mailed Medusa's head  Olympus. You wanted 
him  notice what 'd done." 

"Yeah? Well maybe satyr emotions work differently than human emotions. Because 're wrong.  
don't care what he thinks." 

Grover pulled his feet up onto  branch. "Okay, Percy. Whatever." 

"Besides,  haven't done anything worth bragging about. We barely got out of New York and we're 
stuck here with no money and no way west." 

Grover looked at  night sky, like he was thinking about that problem. "How about  take first 
watch, huh? You get some sleep." 

 wanted  protest, but he started  play Mozart, soft and sweet, and  turned away, my eyes 
stinging. After  few bars of Piano Concerto no. 12, 1 was asleep. 

In my dreams,  stood   dark cavern before  gaping pit. Gray mist creatures churned all around 
, whispering rags of smoke that  somehow knew were  spirits of  dead. They tugged at my 
clothes, trying  pull  back, but  felt compelled  walk forward   very edge of  chasm. 

Looking down made  dizzy. 

The pit yawned so wide and was so completely black,  knew  must be bottomless. Yet  had  
feeling that something was trying  rise from  abyss, something huge and evil. The little hero, an 
amused voice echoed far down   darkness. Too weak, too young, but perhaps  will do. 

The voice felt ancient — cold and heavy. It wrapped around  like sheets of lead. They have misled 
, boy,  said. Barter with .  will give  what  want. A shimmering image hovered over  
void: my mother, frozen at  moment she'd dissolved   shower of gold. Her face was distorted with 
pain, as if  Minotaur were still squeezing her neck. Her eyes looked directly at , pleading: Go! 

 tried  cry out, but my voice wouldn't work. 

Cold laughter echoed from  chasm. 

An invisible force pulled  forward. It would drag  into  pit unless  stood firm. Help  
rise, boy. The voice became hungrier. Bring   bolt. Strike  blow against  treacherous gods! 

The spirits of  dead whispered around , No! Wake! 

The image of my mother began  fade. The thing   pit tightened its unseen grip around . 

 realized  wasn't interested  pulling  . It was using   pull itself out. Good,  
murmured. Good. 

Wake!  dead whispered. Wake! 
Someone was shaking . 
My eyes opened, and  was daylight. 
"Well," Annabeth said, " zombie lives." 

 was trembling from  dream.  could still feel  grip of  chasm monster around my chest. 



"How long was  asleep?" 

"Long enough for   cook breakfast." Annabeth tossed   bag of nacho-flavored corn chips 
from Aunty Em's snack bar. "And Grover went exploring. Look, he found  friend." My eyes had 
trouble focusing. 

Grover was sitting cross-legged   blanket with something fuzzy  his lap,  dirty, unnaturally 
pink stuffed animal. 

No. It wasn't  stuffed animal. It was  pink poodle. 

The poodle yapped at  suspiciously. Grover said, "No, he's not."  blinked. "Are  ... talking  
that thing?" 

The poodle growled. 

"This thing," Grover warned, " our ticket west. Be nice  him." 
"You can talk  animals?" 

Grover ignored  question. "Percy, meet Gladiola. Gladiola, Percy."  stared at Annabeth, figuring 
she'd crack up at  practical joke  were playing  , but she looked deadly serious. 

" not saying hello   pink poodle,"  said. "Forget ." 

"Percy," Annabeth said. " said hello   poodle. You say hello   poodle." The poodle 
growled. 

 said hello   poodle. 

Grover explained that he'd come across Gladiola   woods and 'd struck up  conversation. 
The poodle had run away from  rich local family, who'd posted  $200 reward for his return. Gladiola 
didn't really want  go back  his family, but he was willing  if  meant helping Grover. 

"How does Gladiola know about  reward?"  asked. 
"He read  signs," Grover said. "Duh." 
"Of course,"  said. "Silly ." 

"So we turn  Gladiola," Annabeth explained  her best strategy voice, "we get money, and we buy 
tickets  Los Angeles. Simple." 

 thought about my dream —  whispering voices of  dead,  thing   chasm, and my 
mother's face, shimmering as  dissolved into gold. All that might be waiting for    West. 

"Not another bus,"  said warily. 
"No," Annabeth agreed. 

She pointed downhill, toward train tracks  hadn't been able  see last night   dark. 

"There's an Amtrak station half  mile that way. According  Gladiola,  westbound train leaves 
at noon." 



We spent two days   Amtrak train, heading west through hills, over rivers, past amber waves of 
grain. 

We weren't attacked once, but  didn't relax.  felt that we were traveling around   display case, 
being watched from above and maybe from below, that something was waiting for  right opportunity. 

 tried  keep  low profile because my name and picture were splattered over  front pages of 
several East Coast newspapers. The Trenton Register-News showed  photo taken by  tourist as  got 
off  Greyhound bus.  had  wild look  my eyes. My sword was  metallic blur  my hands. It 
might've been  baseball bat or  lacrosse stick. 

The picture's caption read: 

Twelve-year-old Percy Jackson, wanted for questioning   Long Island disappearance of his 
mother two weeks ago,  shown here fleeing from  bus where he accosted several elderly female 
passengers. The bus exploded  an east New Jersey roadside shortly after Jackson fled  scene. 
Based  eyewitness accounts, police believe  boy may be traveling with two teenage accomplices. 
His stepfather, Gabe Ugliano, has offered  cash reward for information leading  his capture. 

"Don't worry," Annabeth told . "Mortal police could never find us." But she didn't sound so sure. 

The rest of  day  spent alternately pacing  length of  train (because  had  really hard time 
sitting still) or looking out  windows. 

Once,  spotted  family of centaurs galloping across  wheat field, bows at  ready, as  hunted 
lunch. The little boy centaur, who was  size of  second-grader   pony, caught my eye and waved. 
 looked around  passenger car, but nobody else had noticed. The adult riders all had their faces 
buried  laptop computers or magazines. 

Another time, toward evening,  saw something huge moving through  woods.  could 've sworn 
 was  lion, except that lions don't live wild  America, and  thing was  size of  Hummer. Its 
fur glinted gold   evening light. Then  leaped through  trees and was gone. 

Our reward money for returning Gladiola  poodle had only been enough  purchase tickets as far 
as Denver. We couldn't get berths   sleeper car, so we dozed  our seats. My neck got stiff.  tried 
not  drool  my sleep, since Annabeth was sitting right next  . 

Grover kept snoring and bleating and waking  up. Once, he shuffled around and his fake foot fell 
off. Annabeth and  had  stick  back  before any of  other passengers noticed. 

"So," Annabeth asked , once we'd gotten Grover's sneaker readjusted. "Who wants your help?" 
"What do  mean?" 

"When  were asleep just now,  mumbled, ' won't help .' Who were  dreaming 
about?" 

 was reluctant  say anything. It was  second time 'd dreamed about  evil voice from  pit. 
But  bothered  so much  finally told her. 



Annabeth was quiet for  long time. "That doesn't sound like Hades. He always appears   black 
throne, and he never laughs." 

"He offered my mother  trade. Who else could do that?" 

" guess ... if he meant, 'Help  rise from  Underworld.' If he wants war with  Olympians. 
But why ask   bring him  master bolt if he already has ?" 

 shook my head, wishing  knew  answer.  thought about what Grover had told , that  
Furies   bus seemed  have been looking for something. 

Where  ? Where? 

Maybe Grover sensed my emotions. He snorted  his sleep, muttered something about vegetables, 
and turned his head. 

Annabeth readjusted his cap so  covered his horns. "Percy,  can't barter with Hades. You know 
that, right? He's deceitful, heartless, and greedy.  don't care if his Kindly Ones weren't as aggressive 
 time — " 

"This time?"  asked. "You mean 've run into them before?" 

Her hand crept up  her necklace. She fingered  glazed white bead painted with  image of  
pine tree, one of her clay end-of-summer tokens. "Let's just say 've got no love for  Lord of  
Dead. You can't be tempted  make  deal for your mom." 

"What would  do if  was your dad?" 
"That's easy," she said. "'d leave him  rot." 
"You're not serious?" 

Annabeth's gray eyes fixed  . She wore  same expression she'd worn   woods at camp, 
 moment she drew her sword against  hellhound. "My dad's resented  since  day  was born, 
Percy," she said. "He never wanted  baby. When he got , he asked Athena  take  back and raise 
  Olympus because he was too busy with his work. She wasn't happy about that. She told him 
heroes had  be raised by their mortal parent." 

"But how ...  mean,  guess  weren't born   hospital. . . ." 

" appeared  my father's doorstep,   golden cradle, carried down from Olympus by Zephyr  
West Wind. You'd think my dad would remember that as  miracle, right? Like, maybe he'd take some 
digital photos or something. But he always talked about my arrival as if  were  most inconvenient 
thing that had ever happened  him. When  was five he got married and totally forgot about Athena. 
He got  'regular' mortal wife, and had two 'regular' mortal kids, and tried  pretend  didn't exist." 

 stared out  train window. The lights of  sleeping town were drifting by.  wanted  make 
Annabeth feel better, but  didn't know how. 

"My mom married  really awful guy,"  told her. "Grover said she did   protect ,  hide   
 scent of  human family. Maybe that's what your dad was thinking." 

Annabeth kept worrying at her necklace. She was pinching  gold college ring that hung with  
beads. It occurred   that  ring must be her father's.  wondered why she wore  if she hated him 
so much. 

"He doesn't care about ," she said. "His wife — my stepmom — treated  like  freak. She 
wouldn't let  play with her children. My dad went along with her. Whenever something dangerous 
happened —  know, something with monsters —  would both look at  resentfully, like, 'How 
dare  put our family at risk.' Finally,  took  hint.  wasn't wanted.  ran away." 

"How old were ?" 

"Same age as when  started camp. Seven." 



"But . . .  couldn't have gotten all  way  Half-Blood Hill by yourself." 

"Not alone, no. Athena watched over , guided  toward help.  made  couple of unexpected 
friends who took care of , for  short time, anyway." 

 wanted  ask what happened, but Annabeth seemed lost  sad memories. So  listened   
sound of Grover snoring and gazed out  train windows as  dark fields of Ohio raced by. 

Toward  end of our second day   train, June 13, eight days before  summer solstice, we 
passed through some golden hills and over  Mississippi River into St. Louis. 

Annabeth craned her neck  see  Gateway Arch, which looked   like  huge shopping bag 
handle stuck   city. 

" want  do that," she sighed. 

"What?"  asked. 

"Build something like that. You ever see  Parthenon, Percy?" 
"Only  pictures." 

"Someday,  going  see   person.  going  build  greatest monument   gods, ever. 
Something that'll last  thousand years." 

 laughed. "You? An architect?" 

 don't know why, but  found  funny. Just  idea of Annabeth trying  sit quietly and draw all 
day. 

Her cheeks flushed. "Yes, an architect. Athena expects her children  create things, not just tear 
them down, like  certain god of earthquakes  could mention." 

 watched  churning brown water of  Mississippi below. 

"Sorry," Annabeth said. "That was mean." 

"Can't we work together  little?"  pleaded. " mean, didn't Athena and Poseidon ever cooperate?" 

Annabeth had  think about . " guess ...  chariot," she said tentatively. "My mom invented , 
but Poseidon created horses out of  crests of waves. So  had  work together  make  
complete." 

"Then we can cooperate, too. Right?" 

We rode into  city, Annabeth watching as  Arch disappeared behind  hotel. 
" suppose," she said at last. 

We pulled into  Amtrak station downtown. The intercom told us we'd have  three-hour layover 
before departing for Denver. 

Grover stretched. Before he was even fully awake, he said, "Food." 
"Come , goat boy," Annabeth said. "Sightseeing." 
"Sightseeing?" 

"The Gateway Arch," she said. "This may be my only chance  ride   top. Are  coming or 
not?" 

Grover and  exchanged looks. 

 wanted  say no, but  figured that if Annabeth was going, we couldn't very well let her go alone. 
Grover shrugged. "As long as there's  snack bar without monsters." 

The Arch was about  mile from  train station. Late   day  lines  get  weren't that 
long. We threaded our way through  underground museum, looking at covered wagons and other 
junk from  1800s. It wasn't all that thrilling, but Annabeth kept telling us interesting facts about how 



 Arch was built, and Grover kept passing  jelly beans, so  was okay. 

 kept looking around, though, at  other people  line. "You smell anything?"  murmured  
Grover. 

He took his nose out of  jelly-bean bag long enough  sniff. "Underground," he said 
distastefully. "Underground air always smells like monsters. Probably doesn't mean anything." 
But something felt wrong  .  had  feeling we shouldn't be here. 
"Guys,"  said. "You know  gods' symbols of power?" 

Annabeth had been   middle of reading about  construction equipment used  build  
Arch, but she looked over. "Yeah?" 

"Well, Hade—" 

Grover cleared his throat. "We're   public place. . . . You mean, our friend downstairs?" 

"Um, right,"  said. "Our friend way downstairs. Doesn't he have  hat like Annabeth's?" 

"You mean  Helm of Darkness," Annabeth said. "Yeah, that's his symbol of power.  saw  next 
 his seat during  winter solstice council meeting." 

"He was there?"  asked. 

She nodded. "  only time he's allowed  visit Olympus —  darkest day of  year. But his 
helm   lot more powerful than my invisibility hat, if what 've heard  true. . . ." 

"It allows him  become darkness," Grover confirmed. "He can melt into shadow or pass through 
walls. He can't be touched, or seen, or heard. And he can radiate fear so intense  can drive  insane 
or stop your heart. Why do  think all rational creatures fear  dark?" 

"But then . . . how do we know he's not here right now, watching us?"  asked. 
Annabeth and Grover exchanged looks. 
"We don't," Grover said. 

"Thanks, that makes  feel  lot better,"  said. "Got any blue jelly beans left?" 

'd almost mastered my jumpy nerves when  saw  tiny little elevator car we were going  ride  
 top of  Arch, and  knew  was  trouble.  hate confined places. They make  nuts. 

We got shoehorned into  car with  big fat lady and her dog,  Chihuahua with  rhinestone 
collar.  figured maybe  dog was  seeing-eye Chihuahua, because none of  guards said  word 
about . 

We started going up, inside  Arch. 'd never been  an elevator that went   curve, and my 
stomach wasn't too happy about . 

"No parents?"  fat lady asked us. 

She had beady eyes; pointy, coffee-stained teeth;  floppy denim hat, and  denim dress that bulged 
so much, she looked like  blue-jean blimp. 

"They're below," Annabeth told her. "Scared of heights." 

"Oh,  poor darlings." 

The Chihuahua growled. The woman said, "Now, now, sonny. Behave." The dog had beady eyes 
like its owner, intelligent and vicious. 

 said, "Sonny. Is that his name?" 

"No,"  lady told . 

She smiled, as if that cleared everything up. 

At  top of  Arch,  observation deck reminded  of  tin can with carpeting. Rows of tiny 



windows looked out over  city  one side and  river   other. The view was okay, but if 
there's anything  like less than  confined space,   confined space six hundred feet   air.  was 
ready  go pretty quick. 

Annabeth kept talking about structural supports, and how she would 've made  windows bigger, 
and designed  see-through floor. She probably could've stayed up there for hours, but luckily for  
 park ranger announced that  observation deck would be closing   few minutes. 

 steered Grover and Annabeth toward  exit, loaded them into  elevator, and  was about  get 
 myself when  realized there were already two other tourists inside. No room for . 
The park ranger said, "Next car, sir." 
"We'll get out," Annabeth said. "We'll wait with ." 

But that was going  mess everybody up and take even more time, so  said, "Naw,  okay. 'll see 
 guys at  bottom." 

Grover and Annabeth both looked nervous, but  let  elevator door slide shut. Their car 
disappeared down  ramp. 

Now  only people left   observation deck were ,  little boy with his parents,  park 
ranger, and  fat lady with her Chihuahua. 

 smiled uneasily at  fat lady. She smiled back, her forked tongue flickering between her teeth. 

Wait  minute. 

Forked tongue? 

Before  could decide if 'd really seen that, her Chihuahua jumped down and started yapping at . 

"Now, now, sonny,"  lady said. "Does  look like  good time? We have all these nice people 
here." 

"Doggie!" said  little boy. "Look,  doggie!" 
His parents pulled him back. 

The Chihuahua bared his teeth at , foam dripping from his black lips. 
"Well, son,"  fat lady sighed. "If  insist." 

Ice started forming  my stomach. "Um, did  just call that Chihuahua your son?" 
"Chimera, dear,"  fat lady corrected. "Not  Chihuahua.  an easy mistake  make." 
She rolled up her denim sleeves, revealing that  skin of her arms was scaly and green. When she 
smiled,  saw that her teeth were fangs. The pupils of her eyes were sideways slits, like  reptile's. 

The Chihuahua barked louder, and with each bark,  grew. First   size of  Doberman, then   
lion. The bark became  roar. 

The little boy screamed. His parents pulled him back toward  exit, straight into  park ranger, 
who stood, paralyzed, gaping at  monster. 

The Chimera was now so tall its back rubbed against  roof. It had  head of  lion with  blood- 
caked mane,  body and hooves of  giant goat, and  serpent for  tail,  ten-foot-long diamondback 
growing right out of its shaggy behind. The rhinestone dog collar still hung around its neck, and  
plate-sized dog tag was now easy  read: CHIMERA— RABID, FIRE-BREATHING, POISONOUS— 
IF FOUND, PLEASE CALL TARTARUS— EXT. 954. 

 realized  hadn't even uncapped my sword. My hands were numb.  was ten feet away from  
Chimera's bloody maw, and  knew that as soon as  moved,  creature would lunge. 

The snake lady made  hissing noise that might've been laughter. "Be honored, Percy Jackson. Lord 
Zeus rarely allows   test  hero with one of my brood. For    Mother of Monsters,  terrible 



Echidna!" 

 stared at her. All  could think  say was: "Isn't that  kind of anteater?" 

She howled, her reptilian face turning brown and green with rage. " hate  when people say that!  
hate Australia! Naming that ridiculous animal after . For that, Percy Jackson, my son shall destroy 
!" 

The Chimera charged, its lion teeth gnashing.  managed  leap aside and dodge  bite. 

 ended up next   family and  park ranger, who were all screaming now, trying  pry open 
 emergency exit doors. 

 couldn't let them get hurt.  uncapped my sword, ran   other side of  deck, and yelled, 
"Hey, Chihuahua!" 

The Chimera turned faster than  would've thought possible. 

Before  could swing my sword,  opened its mouth, emitting  stench like  world's largest 
barbecue pit, and shot  column of flame straight at . 

 dove through  explosion. The carpet burst into flames;  heat was so intense,  nearly seared 
off my eyebrows. 

Where  had been standing  moment before was  ragged hole   side of  Arch, with melted 
metal steaming around  edges. 

Great,  thought. We just blowtorched  national monument. 

Riptide was now  shining bronze blade  my hands, and as  Chimera turned,  slashed at its 
neck. 

That was my fatal mistake. The blade sparked harmlessly off  dog collar.  tried  regain my 
balance, but  was so worried about defending myself against  fiery lion's mouth,  completely forgot 
about  serpent tail until  whipped around and sank its fangs into my calf. 

My whole leg was  fire.  tried  jab Riptide into  Chimera's mouth, but  serpent tail 
wrapped around my ankles and pulled  off balance, and my blade flew out of my hand, spinning out 
of  hole   Arch and down toward  Mississippi River. 

 managed  get  my feet, but  knew  had lost.  was weaponless.  could feel deadly poison 
racing up  my chest.  remembered Chiron saying that Anaklusmos would always return  , but 
there was no pen  my pocket. Maybe  had fallen too far away. Maybe  only returned when  was  
pen form.  didn't know, and  wasn't going  live long enough  figure  out. 

 backed into  hole   wall. The Chimera advanced, growling, smoke curling from its lips. 
The snake lady, Echidna, cackled. "They don't make heroes like  used , eh, son?" 

The monster growled. It seemed  no hurry  finish  off now that  was beaten. 

 glanced at  park ranger and  family. The little boy was hiding behind his father's legs.  had 
 protect these people.  couldn't just . . . die.  tried  think, but my whole body was  fire. My head 
felt dizzy.  had no sword.  was facing  massive, fire-breathing monster and its mother. And  was 
scared. 

There was no place else  go, so  stepped   edge of  hole. Far, far below,  river glittered. 
If  died, would  monsters go away? Would  leave  humans alone? 

"If  are  son of Poseidon," Echidna hissed, " would not fear water. Jump, Percy Jackson. 
Show  that water will not harm . Jump and retrieve your sword. Prove your bloodline." 

Yeah, right,  thought. 'd read somewhere that jumping into water from  couple of stories up was 
like jumping onto solid asphalt. From here, 'd splatter  impact. 



The Chimera's mouth glowed red, heating up for another blast. 

"You have no faith," Echidna told . "You do not trust  gods.  cannot blame , little coward. 
Better  die now. The gods are faithless. The poison   your heart." 

She was right:  was dying.  could feel my breath slowing down. Nobody could save , not even 
 gods. 

 backed up and looked down at  water.  remembered  warm glow of my father's smile when  
was  baby. He must have seen . He must have visited  when  was  my cradle. 

 remembered  swirling green trident that had appeared above my head  night of capture  
flag, when Poseidon had claimed  as his son. 

But  wasn't  sea. This was  Mississippi, dead center of  USA. There was no Sea God 
here. 

"Die, faithless one," Echidna rasped, and  Chimera sent  column of flame toward my face. 
"Father, help ,"  prayed. 

 turned and jumped. My clothes  fire, poison coursing through my veins,  plummeted toward  
river. 


'd love  tell   had some deep revelation  my way down, that  came  terms with my own 
mortality, laughed   face of death, et cetera. 

The truth? My only thought was: Aaaaggghhhhh! 

The river raced toward  at  speed of  truck. Wind ripped  breath from my lungs. Steeples 
and skyscrapers and bridges tumbled  and out of my vision. 
And then: Flaaa-boooom! 

A whiteout of bubbles.  sank through  murk, sure that  was about  end up embedded   
hundred feet of mud and lost forever. 

But my impact with  water hadn't hurt.  was falling slowly now, bubbles trickling up through my 
fingers.  settled   river bottom soundlessly. A catfish  size of my stepfather lurched away into 
 gloom. Clouds of silt and disgusting garbage — beer bottles, old shoes, plastic bags — swirled up all 
around . 

At that point,  realized  few things: first,  had not been flattened into  pancake.  had not been 
barbecued.  couldn't even feel  Chimera poison boiling  my veins anymore.  was alive, which was 
good. 

Second realization:  wasn't wet.  mean,  could feel  coolness of  water.  could see where  
fire  my clothes had been quenched. But when  touched my own shirt,  felt perfectly dry. 

 looked at  garbage floating by and snatched an old cigarette lighter. 

No way,  thought. 

 flicked  lighter. It sparked. A tiny flame appeared, right there at  bottom of  Mississippi. 

 grabbed  soggy hamburger wrapper out of  current and immediately  paper turned dry.  lit 
 with no problem. As soon as  let  go,  flames sputtered out. The wrapper turned back into  slimy 
rag. Weird. 

But  strangest thought occurred   only last:  was breathing.  was underwater, and  was 
breathing normally. 

 stood up, thigh-deep  mud. My legs felt shaky. My hands trembled.  should've been dead. The 
fact that  wasn't seemed like . . . well,  miracle.  imagined  woman's voice,  voice that sounded  
bit like my mother: Percy, what do  say? 

"Urn . . . thanks." Underwater,  sounded like  did  recordings, like  much older kid. "Thank  
. . . Father." 

No response. Just  dark drift of garbage downriver,  enormous catfish gliding by,  flash of 
sunset   water's surface far above, turning everything  color of butterscotch. 

Why had Poseidon saved ? The more  thought about ,  more ashamed  felt. So 'd gotten 
lucky  few times before. Against  thing like  Chimera,  had never stood  chance. Those poor 
people   Arch were probably toast.  couldn't protect them.  was no hero. Maybe  should just stay 



down here with  catfish, join  bottom feeders. 

Fump-fump-fump. A riverboat's paddlewheel churned above , swirling  silt around. 

There, not five feet  front of , was my sword, its gleaming bronze hilt sticking up   mud. 

 heard that woman's voice again: Percy, take  sword. Your father believes  . This time,  
knew  voice wasn't  my head.  wasn't imagining . Her words seemed  come from everywhere, 
rippling through  water like dolphin sonar. 

"Where are ?"  called aloud. 

Then, through  gloom,  saw her —  woman  color of  water,  ghost   current, floating 
just above  sword. She had long billowing hair, and her eyes, barely visible, were green like mine. 

A lump formed  my throat.  said, "Mom?" 

No, child, only  messenger, though your mother's fate  not as hopeless as  believe. Go   
beach  Santa Monica. 

"What?" 

It  your father's will. Before  descend into  Underworld,  must go  Santa Monica. 
Please, Percy,  cannot stay long. The river here  too foul for my presence. 

"But ..."  was sure  woman was my mother, or  vision of her, anyway. "Who — how did  
There was so much  wanted  ask,  words jammed up  my throat. 

 cannot stay, brave one,  woman said. She reached out, and  felt  current brush my face like  
caress. You must go  Santa Monica! And, Percy, do not trust  gifts. . . . 

Her voice faded. 

"Gifts?"  asked. "What gifts? Wait!" 

She made one more attempt  speak, but  sound was gone. Her image melted away. If  was my 
mother,  had lost her again. 

 felt like drowning myself. The only problem:  was immune  drowning. 

Your father believes  , she had said. 

She'd also called  brave . . . unless she was talking   catfish. 

 waded toward Riptide and grabbed  by  hilt. The Chimera might still be up there with its 
snaky, fat mother, waiting  finish  off. At  very least,  mortal police would be arriving, trying 
 figure out who had blown  hole   Arch. If  found , 'd have some questions. 

 capped my sword, stuck  ballpoint pen  my pocket. "Thank , Father,"  said again   
dark water. 

Then  kicked up through  muck and swam for  surface. 
 came ashore next   floating McDonald's. 

A block away, every emergency vehicle  St. Louis was surrounding  Arch. Police helicopters 
circled overhead. The crowd of onlookers reminded  of Times Square  New Year's Eve. 

A little girl said, "Mama! That boy walked out of  river." 

"That's nice, dear," her mother said, craning her neck  watch  ambulances. 

"But he's dry!" 

"That's nice, dear." 

A news lady was talking for  camera: "Probably not  terrorist attack, we're told, but  still very 
early   investigation. The damage, as  can see,  very serious. We're trying  get  some of 



 survivors,  question them about eyewitness reports of someone falling from  Arch." 

Survivors.  felt  surge of relief. Maybe  park ranger and that family made  out safely.  hoped 
Annabeth and Grover were okay. 

 tried  push through  crowd  see what was going  inside  police line. 

". . . an adolescent boy," another reporter was saying. "Channel Five has learned that surveillance 
cameras show an adolescent boy going wild   observation deck, somehow setting off  freak 
explosion. Hard  believe, John, but that's what we're hearing. Again, no confirmed fatalities . . ." 

 backed away, trying  keep my head down.  had  go  long way around  police perimeter. 
Uniformed officers and news reporters were everywhere. 

'd almost lost hope of ever finding Annabeth and Grover when  familiar voice bleated, "Perrr-cy!" 

 turned and got tackled by Graver's bear hug — or goat hug. He said, "We thought 'd gone  
Hades  hard way!" 

Annabeth stood behind him, trying  look angry, but even she seemed relieved  see . "We can't 
leave  alone for five minutes! What happened?" 

" sort of fell." 

"Percy! Six hundred and thirty feet?" 

Behind us,  cop shouted, "Gangway!" The crowd parted, and  couple of paramedics hustled out, 
rolling  woman   stretcher.  recognized her immediately as  mother of  little boy who'd been 
  observation deck. She was saying, "And then  huge dog,  huge fire-breathing Chihuahua 

"Okay, ma'am,"  paramedic said. "Just calm down. Your family  fine. The medication  
starting  kick ." 

" not crazy! This boy jumped out of  hole and  monster disappeared." Then she saw . 
"There he ! That's  boy!" 

 turned quickly and pulled Annabeth and Grover after . We disappeared into  crowd. 
"What's going ?" Annabeth demanded. "Was she talking about  Chihuahua   elevator?" 
 told them  whole story of  Chimera, Echidna, my high-dive act, and  underwater lady's 
message. 

"Whoa," said Grover. "We've got  get   Santa Monica! You can't ignore  summons from 
your dad." 

Before Annabeth could respond, we passed another reporter doing  news break, and  almost froze 
 my tracks when he said, "Percy Jackson. That's right, Dan. Channel Twelve has learned that  boy 
who may have caused  explosion fits  description of  young man wanted by authorities for  
serious New Jersey bus accident three days ago. And  boy  believed  be traveling west. For our 
viewers at home, here   photo of Percy Jackson." 

We ducked around  news van and slipped into an alley. 
"First things first,"  told Grover. "We've got  get out of town!" 

Somehow, we made  back   Amtrak station without getting spotted. We got  board  train 
just before  pulled out for Denver. The train trundled west as darkness fell, police lights still pulsing 
against  St. Louis skyline behind us. 


The next afternoon, June 14, seven days before  solstice, our train rolled into Denver. We hadn't 
eaten since  night before   dining car, somewhere  Kansas. We hadn't taken  shower since 
Half-Blood Hill, and  was sure that was obvious. 

"Let's try  contact Chiron," Annabeth said. " want  tell him about your talk with  river 
spirit." 

"We can't use phones, right?" 
" not talking about phones." 

We wandered through downtown for about half an hour, though  wasn't sure what Annabeth was 
looking for. The air was dry and hot, which felt weird after  humidity of St. Louis. Everywhere we 
turned,  Rocky Mountains seemed  be staring at , like  tidal wave about  crash into  city. 

Finally we found an empty do--yourself car wash. We veered toward  stall farthest from  
street, keeping our eyes open for patrol cars. We were three adolescents hanging out at  car wash 
without  car; any cop worth his doughnuts would figure we were up  no good. 

"What exactly are we doing?"  asked, as Grover took out  spray gun. 

" seventy-five cents," he grumbled. "'ve only got two quarters left. Annabeth?" 

"Don't look at ," she said. "The dining car wiped  out." 

 fished out my last bit of change and passed Grover  quarter, which left  two nickels and one 
drachma from Medusa's place. 

"Excellent," Grover said. "We could do  with  spray bottle, of course, but  connection isn't as 
good, and my arm gets tired of pumping." 
"What are  talking about?" 

He fed   quarters and set  knob  FINE MIST. "-M'ing." 
"Instant messaging?" 

"irzs-messaging," Annabeth corrected. "The rainbow goddess Iris carries messages for  gods. If 
 know how  ask, and she's not too busy, she'll do  same for half-bloods." 
"You summon  goddess with  spray gun?" 

Grover pointed  nozzle   air and water hissed out   thick white mist. "Unless  know an 
easier way  make  rainbow." 

Sure enough, late afternoon light filtered through  vapor and broke into colors. 
Annabeth held her palm out  . "Drachma, please." 
 handed  over. 

She raised  coin over her head. "O goddess, accept our offering." 

She threw  drachma into  rainbow. It disappeared   golden shimmer. 

"Half-Blood Hill," Annabeth requested. 



For  moment, nothing happened. 

Then  was looking through  mist at strawberry fields, and  Long Island Sound   distance. 
We seemed  be   porch of  Big House. Standing with his back  us at  railing was  sandy- 
haired guy  shorts and an orange tank top. He was holding  bronze sword and seemed  be staring 
intently at something down   meadow. 

"Luke!"  called. 

He turned, eyes wide.  could swear he was standing three feet  front of  through  screen of 
mist, except  could only see  part of him that appeared   rainbow. 

"Percy!" His scarred face broke into  grin. "Is that Annabeth, too? Thank  gods! Are  guys 
okay?" 

"We're . . . uh . . . fine," Annabeth stammered. She was madly straightening her dirty T-shirt, trying 
 comb  loose hair out of her face. "We thought — Chiron —  mean — " 

"He's down at  cabins." Luke's smile faded. "We're having some issues with  campers. Listen, 
 everything cool with ? Is Grover all right?" 

" right here," Grover called. He held  nozzle out  one side and stepped into Luke's line of 
vision. "What kind of issues?" 

Just then  big Lincoln Continental pulled into  car wash with its stereo turned  maximum hip- 
hop. As  car slid into  next stall,  bass from  subwoofers vibrated so much,  shook  
pavement. 

"Chiron had  — what's that noise?" Luke yelled. 

"'ll take care of !" Annabeth yelled back, looking very relieved  have an excuse  get out of 
sight. "Grover, come !" 

"What?" Grover said. "But—" 

"Give Percy  nozzle and come !" she ordered. 

Grover muttered something about girls being harder  understand than  Oracle at Delphi, then he 
handed   spray gun and followed Annabeth. 

 readjusted  hose so  could keep  rainbow going and still see Luke. 

"Chiron had  break up  fight," Luke shouted   over  music. "Things are pretty tense here, 
Percy. Word leaked out about  Zeus-Poseidon standoff. We're still not sure how — probably  same 
scumbag who summoned  hellhound. Now  campers are starting  take sides.  shaping up like 
 Trojan War all over again. Aphrodite, Ares, and Apollo are backing Poseidon, more or less. Athena 
 backing Zeus." 

 shuddered  think that Clarisse's cabin would ever be  my dad's side for anything. In  next 
stall,  heard Annabeth and some guy arguing with each other, then  music's volume decreased 
drastically. 

"So what's your status?" Luke asked . "Chiron will be sorry he missed ." 

 told him pretty much everything, including my dreams. It felt so good  see him,  feel like  was 
back at camp even for  few minutes, that  didn't realize how long  had talked until  beeper went 
off   spray machine, and  realized  only had one more minute before  water shut off. 

" wish  could be there," Luke told . "We can't help much from here,  afraid, but listen ...  
had  be Hades who took  master bolt. He was there at Olympus at  winter solstice.  was 
chaperoning  field trip and we saw him." 

"But Chiron said  gods can't take each other's magic items directly." 



"That's true," Luke said, looking troubled. "Still . . . Hades has  helm of darkness. How could 
anybody else sneak into  throne room and steal  master bolt? You'd have  be invisible." 

We were both silent, until Luke seemed  realize what he'd said. 

"Oh, hey," he protested. " didn't mean Annabeth. She and  have known each other forever. She 
would never ...  mean, she's like  little sister  ." 

 wondered if Annabeth would like that description. In  stall next  us,  music stopped 
completely. A man screamed  terror, car doors slammed, and  Lincoln peeled out of  car wash. 

"You'd better go see what that was," Luke said. "Listen, are  wearing  flying shoes? 'll feel 
better if  know 've done  some good." 

"Oh . . . uh, yeah!"  tried not  sound like  guilty liar. "Yeah, 've come  handy." 
"Really?" He grinned. "They fit and everything?" 
The water shut off. The mist started  evaporate. 

"Well, take care of yourself out there  Denver," Luke called, his voice getting fainter. "And tell 
Grover 'll be better  time! Nobody will get turned into  pine tree if he just — " 

But  mist was gone, and Luke's image faded  nothing.  was alone   wet, empty car wash 
stall. 

Annabeth and Grover came around  corner, laughing, but stopped when  saw my face. 
Annabeth's smile faded. "What happened, Percy? What did Luke say?" 

"Not much,"  lied, my stomach feeling as empty as  Big Three cabin. "Come , let's find some 
dinner." 

A few minutes later, we were sitting at  booth   gleaming chrome diner. All around us, families 
were eating burgers and drinking malts and sodas. 

Finally  waitress came over. She raised her eyebrow skeptically. "Well?" 
 said, "We, um, want  order dinner." 
"You kids have money  pay for ?" 

Graver's lower lip quivered.  was afraid he would start bleating, or worse, start eating  linoleum. 
Annabeth looked ready  pass out from hunger. 

 was trying  think up  sob story for  waitress when  rumble shook  whole building;  
motorcycle  size of  baby elephant had pulled up   curb. 

All conversation   diner stopped. The motorcycle's headlight glared red. Its gas tank had flames 
painted  , and  shotgun holster riveted  either side, complete with shotguns. The seat was leather 
— but leather that looked like . . . well, Caucasian human skin. 

The guy   bike would 've made pro wrestlers run for Mama. He was dressed   red muscle 
shirt and black jeans and  black leather duster, with  hunting knife strapped  his thigh. He wore red 
wraparound shades, and he had  crudest, most brutal face 'd ever seen — handsome,  guess, but 
wicked — with an oily black crew cut and cheeks that were scarred from many, many fights. The weird 
thing was,  felt like 'd seen his face somewhere before. 

As he walked into  diner,  hot, dry wind blew through  place. All  people rose, as if  
were hypnotized, but  biker waved his hand dismissively and  all sat down again. Everybody 
went back  their conversations. The waitress blinked, as if somebody had just pressed  rewind 
button  her brain. She asked us again, "You kids have money  pay for ?" 

The biker said, "  ." He slid into our booth, which was way too small for him, and crowded 
Annabeth against  window. 



He looked up at  waitress, who was gaping at him, and said, "Are  still here?" 

He pointed at her, and she stiffened. She turned as if she'd been spun around, then marched back 
toward  kitchen. 

The biker looked at .  couldn't see his eyes behind  red shades, but bad feelings started 
boiling  my stomach. Anger, resentment, bitterness.  wanted  hit  wall.  wanted  pick  fight 
with somebody. Who did  guy think he was? 

He gave   wicked grin. "So 're old Seaweed's kid, huh?" 

 should've been surprised, or scared, but instead  felt like  was looking at my stepdad, Gabe.  
wanted  rip  guy's head off. "What's   ?" 

Annabeth's eyes flashed   warning. "Percy,   — " 

The biker raised his hand. 

"S'okay," he said. " don't mind  little attitude. Long as  remember who's  boss. You know 
who  , little cousin?" 

Then  struck  why  guy looked familiar. He had  same vicious sneer as some of  kids at 
Camp Half-Blood,  ones from cabin five. 

"You're Clarisse's dad,"  said. "Ares, god of war." 

Ares grinned and took off his shades. Where his eyes should've been, there was only fire, empty 
sockets glowing with miniature nuclear explosions. "That's right, punk.  heard  broke Clarisse's 
spear." 

"She was asking for ." 

"Probably. That's cool.  don't fight my kids' fights,  know? What  here for —  heard  
were  town.  got  little proposition for ." 

The waitress came back with heaping trays of food — cheeseburgers, fries, onion rings, and 
chocolate shakes. 

Ares handed her  few gold drachmas. 

She looked nervously at  coins. "But, these aren't . . ." 

Ares pulled out his huge knife and started cleaning his fingernails. "Problem, sweetheart?" 
The waitress swallowed, then left with  gold. 

"You can't do that,"  told Ares. "You can't just threaten people with  knife." 

Ares laughed. "Are  kidding?  love  country. Best place since Sparta. Don't  carry  
weapon, punk? You should. Dangerous world out there. Which brings   my proposition.  need  
 do   favor." 

"What favor could  do for  god?" 

"Something  god doesn't have time  do himself.  nothing much.  left my shield at an 
abandoned water park here  town.  was going   little . . . date with my girlfriend. We were 
interrupted.  left my shield behind.  want   fetch  for ." 

"Why don't  go back and get  yourself ?" 
The fire  his eye sockets glowed  little hotter. 

"Why don't  turn  into prairie dog and run  over with my Harley? Because  don't feel like 
. A god  giving  an opportunity  prove yourself, Percy Jackson. Will  prove yourself  
coward?" He leaned forward. "Or maybe  only fight when there's  river  dive into, so your daddy 
can protect ." 

 wanted  punch  guy, but somehow,  knew he was waiting for that. Ares's power was causing 



my anger. He'd love  if  attacked.  didn't want  give him  satisfaction. 
"We're not interested,"  said. "We've already got  quest." 

Ares's fiery eyes made  see things  didn't want  see — blood and smoke and corpses   
battlefield. " know all about your quest, punk. When that item was first stolen, Zeus sent his best out 
looking for : Apollo, Athena, Artemis, and , naturally. If  couldn't sniff out  weapon that powerful 
. . ." He licked his lips, as if  very thought of  master bolt made him hungry. "Well ... if  couldn't 
find ,  got no hope. Nevertheless,  trying  give   benefit of  doubt. Your dad and  go 
way back. After all,   one who told him my suspicions about old Corpse Breath." 

"You told him Hades stole  bolt?" 

"Sure. Framing somebody  start  war. Oldest trick   book.  recognized  immediately. In  
way,  got   thank for your little quest." 

"Thanks,"  grumbled. 

"Hey,   generous guy. Just do my little job, and 'll help   your way. 'll arrange  ride 
west for  and your friends." 
"We're doing fine  our own." 

"Yeah, right. No money. No wheels. No clue what 're up against. Help  out, and maybe 'll 
tell  something  need  know. Something about your mom." 

"My mom?" 

He grinned. "That got your attention. The water park   mile west  Delancy. You can't miss . 
Look for  Tunnel of Love ride." 

"What interrupted your date?"  asked. "Something scare  off ?" 

Ares bared his teeth, but 'd seen his threatening look before  Clarisse. There was something false 
about , almost like he was nervous. 

"You're lucky  met , punk, and not one of  other Olympians. They're not as forgiving of 
rudeness as  . 'll meet  back here when 're done. Don't disappoint ." 

After that  must have fainted, or fallen into  trance, because when  opened my eyes again, Ares 
was gone.  might've thought  conversation had been  dream, but Annabeth and Grover's 
expressions told  otherwise. 

"Not good," Grover said. "Ares sought  out, Percy. This  not good." 

 stared out  window. The motorcycle had disappeared. 

Did Ares really know something about my mom, or was he just playing with ? Now that he was 
gone, all  anger had drained out of .  realized Ares must love  mess with people's emotions. 
That was his power — cranking up  passions so badly,  clouded your ability  think. 

" probably some kind of trick,"  said. "Forget Ares. Let's just go." 

"We can't," Annabeth said. "Look,  hate Ares as much as anybody, but  don't ignore  gods 
unless  want serious bad fortune. He wasn't kidding about turning  into  rodent." 

 looked down at my cheeseburger, which suddenly didn't seem so appetizing. "Why does he need 
us?" 

"Maybe   problem that requires brains," Annabeth said. "Ares has strength. That's all he has. 
Even strength has  bow  wisdom sometimes." 

"But  water park ... he acted almost scared. What would make  war god run away like that?" 
Annabeth and Grover glanced nervously at each other. 
Annabeth said, " afraid we'll have  find out." 



The sun was sinking behind  mountains by  time we found  water park. Judging from  
sign,  once had been called WATERLAND, but now some of  letters were smashed out, so  read 
WATRAD. 

The main gate was padlocked and topped with barbed wire. Inside, huge dry waterslides and tubes 
and pipes curled everywhere, leading  empty pools. Old tickets and advertisements fluttered around 
 asphalt. With night coming ,  place looked sad and creepy. 

"If Ares brings his girlfriend here for  date,"  said, staring up at  barbed wire, "'d hate  see 
what she looks like." 

"Percy," Annabeth warned. "Be more respectful." 

"Why?  thought  hated Ares." 

"He's still  god. And his girlfriend  very temperamental." 

"You don't want  insult her looks," Grover added. "Who  she? Echidna?" 

"No, Aphrodite," Grover said,  little dreamily. 

"Goddess of love." 

" thought she was married  somebody,"  said. 
"Hephaestus." 

"What's your point?" he asked. "Oh."  suddenly felt  need  change  subject. 

"So how do we get ?" 

"Maia!" Grover's shoes sprouted wings. 

He flew over  fence, did an unintended somersault  midair, then stumbled   landing   
opposite side. He dusted off his jeans, as if he'd planned  whole thing. "You guys coming?" 

Annabeth and  had  climb  old-fashioned way, holding down  barbed wire for each other as 
we crawled over  top. 

The shadows grew long as we walked through  park, checking out  attractions. There was 
Ankle Biter Island, Head Over Wedgie, and Dude, Where's My Swimsuit? 

No monsters came  get us. Nothing made  slightest noise. 

We found  souvenir shop that had been left open. Merchandise still lined  shelves: snow globes, 
pencils, postcards, and racks of — 

"Clothes," Annabeth said. "Fresh clothes." 

"Yeah,"  said. "But  can't just—" 

"Watch ." 

She snatched an entire row of stuff of  racks and disappeared into  changing room. A few 
minutes later she came out  Waterland flower-print shorts,  big red Waterland T-shirt, and 
commemorative Waterland surf shoes. A Waterland backpack was slung over her shoulder, obviously 
stuffed with more goodies. 

"What  heck." Grover shrugged. Soon, all three of us were decked out like walking 
advertisements for  defunct theme park. 

We continued searching for  Tunnel of Love.  got  feeling that  whole park was holding its 
breath. "So Ares and Aphrodite,"  said,  keep my mind off  growing dark, " have  thing 
going?" 

"That's old gossip, Percy," Annabeth told . "Threethousand-year-old gossip." 



"What about Aphrodite's husband?" 

"Well,  know," she said. "Hephaestus. The blacksmith. He was crippled when he was  baby, 
thrown off Mount Olympus by Zeus. So he isn't exactly handsome. Clever with his hands, and all, but 
Aphrodite isn't into brains and talent,  know?" 

"She likes bikers." 
"Whatever." 
"Hephaestus knows?" 

"Oh sure," Annabeth said. "He caught them together once.  mean, literally caught them,   golden 
net, and invited all  gods  come and laugh at them. Hephaestus  always trying  embarrass them. 
That's why  meet  out-of--way places, like . . ." 

She stopped, looking straight ahead. "Like that." 

In front of us was an empty pool that would've been awesome for skateboarding. It was at least fifty 
yards across and shaped like  bowl. 

Around  rim,  dozen bronze statues of Cupid stood guard with wings spread and bows ready  
fire. On  opposite side from us,  tunnel opened up, probably where  water flowed into when  
pool was full. The sign above  read, THRILL RIDE O' LOVE: THIS IS NOT YOUR PARENTS' 
TUNNEL OF LOVE! 

Grover crept toward  edge. "Guys, look." 

Marooned at  bottom of  pool was  pinkand-white two-seater boat with  canopy over  top 
and little hearts painted all over . In  left seat, glinting   fading light, was Ares's shield,  
polished circle of bronze. 

"This  too easy,"  said. "So we just walk down there and get ?" 

Annabeth ran her fingers along  base of  nearest Cupid statue. 

"There's  Greek letter carved here," she said. "Eta.  wonder . . ." 

"Grover,"  said, " smell any monsters?" 

He sniffed  wind. "Nothing." 

"Nothing — like, --Arch-and--didn't-smell-Echidna nothing, or really nothing?" 
Grover looked hurt. " told , that was underground." 
"Okay,  sorry."  took  deep breath. " going down there." 

"'ll go with ." Grover didn't sound too enthusiastic, but  got  feeling he was trying  make 
up for what had happened  St. Louis. 

"No,"  told him. " want   stay up top with  flying shoes. You're  Red Baron,  flying 
ace, remember? 'll be counting   for backup,  case something goes wrong." 

Grover puffed up his chest  little. "Sure. But what could go wrong?" 

" don't know. Just  feeling. Annabeth, come with  — " 

"Are  kidding?" She looked at  as if 'd just dropped from  moon. Her cheeks were bright 

red. 

"What's  problem now?"  demanded. 

"Me, go with    . . .  Thrill Ride of Love'? How embarrassing  that? What if somebody 
saw ?" 

"Who's going  see ?" But my face was burning now, too. Leave    girl  make everything 
complicated. "Fine,"  told her. "'ll do  myself." But when  started down  side of  pool, she 
followed , muttering about how boys always messed things up. 



We reached  boat. The shield was propped  one seat, and next   was  lady's silk scarf.  
tried  imagine Ares and Aphrodite here,  couple of gods meeting   junked-out amusement-park 
ride. Why? Then  noticed something  hadn't seen from up top: mirrors all  way around  rim of 
 pool, facing  spot. We could see ourselves no matter which direction we looked. That must be . 
While Ares and Aphrodite were smooching with each other  could look at their favorite people: 
themselves. 

 picked up  scarf. It shimmered pink, and  perfume was indescribable — rose, or mountain 
laurel. Something good.  smiled,  little dreamy, and was about  rub  scarf against my cheek when 
Annabeth ripped  out of my hand and stuffed   her pocket. "Oh, no  don't. Stay away from that 
love magic." 

"What?" 

"Just get  shield, Seaweed Brain, and let's get out of here." 

The moment  touched  shield,  knew we were  trouble. My hand broke through something that 
had been connecting    dashboard. A cobweb,  thought, but then  looked at  strand of   my 
palm and saw  was some kind of metal filament, so fine  was almost invisible. A trip wire. 

"Wait," Annabeth said. 

"Too late." 

"There's another Greek letter   side of  boat, another Eta. This   trap." 

Noise erupted all around us, of  million gears grinding, as if  whole pool were turning into one 
giant machine. 

Grover yelled, "Guys!" 

Up   rim,  Cupid statues were drawing their bows into firing position. Before  could 
suggest taking cover,  shot, but not at us. They fired at each other, across  rim of  pool. Silky 
cables trailed from  arrows, arcing over  pool and anchoring where  landed  form  huge 
golden asterisk. Then smaller metallic threads started weaving together magically between  main 
strands, making  net. 

"We have  get out,"  said. 

"Duh!" Annabeth said. 

 grabbed  shield and we ran, but going up  slope of  pool was not as easy as going down. 
"Come !" Grover shouted. 

He was trying  hold open  section of  net for us, but wherever he touched ,  golden threads 
started  wrap around his hands. 

The Cupids' heads popped open. Out came video cameras. Spotlights rose up all around  pool, 
blinding us with illumination, and  loudspeaker voice boomed: "Live  Olympus  one minute . . . 
Fifty-nine seconds, fifty-eight . . ." 

"Hephaestus!" Annabeth screamed. " so stupid! Eta  £ H.' He made  trap  catch his wife 
with Ares. Now we're going  be broadcast live  Olympus and look like absolute fools!" 

We'd almost made    rim when  row of mirrors opened like hatches and thousands of tiny 
metallic . . . things poured out. 
Annabeth screamed. 

It was an army of wind-up creepy-crawlies: bronze-gear bodies, spindly legs, little pincer mouths, 
all scuttling toward us   wave of clacking, whirring metal. 

"Spiders!" Annabeth said. "Sp — sp — aaaah!" 



'd never seen her like  before. She fell backward  terror and almost got overwhelmed by  
spider robots before  pulled her up and dragged her back toward  boat. 

The things were coming out from all around  rim now, millions of them, flooding toward  
center of  pool, completely surrounding us.  told myself  probably weren't programmed  kill, 
just corral us and bite us and make us look stupid. Then again,  was  trap meant for gods. And we 
weren't gods. 

Annabeth and  climbed into  boat.  started kicking away  spiders as  swarmed aboard.  
yelled at Annabeth  help , but she was too paralyzed  do much more than scream. 
"Thirty, twenty-nine," called  loudspeaker. 

The spiders started spitting out strands of metal thread, trying  tie us down. The strands were easy 
enough  break at first, but there were so many of them, and  spiders just kept coming.  kicked one 
away from Annabeth's leg and its pincers took  chunk out of my new surf shoe. 

Grover hovered above  pool  his flying sneakers, trying  pull  net loose, but  wouldn't 
budge. 

Think,  told myself. Think. 

The Tunnel of Love entrance was under  net. We could use  as an exit, except that  was 
blocked by  million robot spiders. 

"Fifteen, fourteen,"  loudspeaker called. 

Water,  thought. Where does  ride's water come from? 

Then  saw them: huge water pipes behind  mirrors, where  spiders had come from. And up 
above  net, next  one of  Cupids,  glass-windowed booth that must be  controller's station. 
"Grover!"  yelled. "Get into that booth! Find  '' switch!" 
"But—" 

"Do !" It was  crazy hope, but  was our only chance. The spiders were all over  prow of  
boat now. Annabeth was screaming her head off.  had  get us out of there. 

Grover was   controller's booth now, slamming away at  buttons. 
"Five, four — " 

Grover looked up at  hopelessly, raising his hands. He was letting  know that he'd pushed 
every button, but still nothing was happening. 

 closed my eyes and thought about waves, rushing water,  Mississippi River.  felt  familiar tug 
 my gut.  tried  imagine that  was dragging  ocean all  way  Denver. 

"Two, one, zero!" 

Water exploded out of  pipes. It roared into  pool, sweeping away  spiders.  pulled 
Annabeth into  seat next   and fastened her seat belt just as  tidal wave slammed into our 
boat, over  top, whisking  spiders away and dousing us completely, but not capsizing us. The boat 
turned, lifted   flood, and spun  circles around  whirlpool. 

The water was full of short-circuiting spiders, some of them smashing against  pool's concrete 
wall with such force  burst. 

Spotlights glared down at us. The Cupid-cams were rolling, live  Olympus. 

But  could only concentrate  controlling  boat.  willed   ride  current,  keep away 
from  wall. Maybe  was my imagination, but  boat seemed  respond. At least,  didn't break 
into  million pieces. We spun around one last time,  water level now almost high enough  shred us 
against  metal net. Then  boat's nose turned toward  tunnel and we rocketed through into  



darkness. 

Annabeth and  held tight, both of us screaming as  boat shot curls and hugged corners and took 
forty-fivedegree plunges past pictures of Romeo and Juliet and  bunch of other Valentine's Day stuff. 

Then we were out of  tunnel,  night air whistling through our hair as  boat barreled straight 
toward  exit. 

If  ride had been  working order, we would've sailed off  ramp between  golden Gates of 
Love and splashed down safely   exit pool. But there was  problem. The Gates of Love were 
chained. Two boats that had been washed out of  tunnel before us were now piled against  
barricade — one submerged,  other cracked  half. 

"Unfasten your seat belt,"  yelled  Annabeth. 

"Are  crazy?" 

"Unless  want  get smashed  death."  strapped Ares's shield  my arm. "We're going  
have  jump for ." My idea was simple and insane. As  boat struck, we would use its force like  
springboard  jump  gate. 'd heard of people surviving car crashes that way, getting thrown thirty or 
forty feet away from an accident. With luck, we would land   pool. 

Annabeth seemed  understand. She gripped my hand as  gates got closer. 

"On my mark,"  said. 

"No! On my mark!" 

"What?" 

"Simple physics!" she yelled. "Force times  trajectory angle — " 

"Fine!"  shouted. "On your mark!" 

She hesitated . . . hesitated . . . then yelled, "Now!" 

Crack! 

Annabeth was right. If we'd jumped when  thought we should've, we would've crashed into  
gates. She got us maximum lift. 

Unfortunately, that was  little more than we needed. Our boat smashed into  pileup and we were 
thrown into  air, straight over  gates, over  pool, and down toward solid asphalt. 

Something grabbed  from behind. 
Annabeth yelled, "Ouch!" 
Grover! 

In midair, he had grabbed  by  shirt, and Annabeth by  arm, and was trying  pull us out of 
 crash landing, but Annabeth and  had all  momentum. 

"You're too heavy!" Grover said. "We're going down!" 

We spiraled toward  ground, Grover doing his best  slow  fall. 

We smashed into  photo-board, Graver's head going straight into  hole where tourists would put 
their faces, pretending  be Noo-Noo  Friendly Whale. Annabeth and  tumbled   ground, 
banged up but alive. Ares's shield was still  my arm. 

Once we caught our breath, Annabeth and  got Grover out of  photo-board and thanked him for 
saving our lives.  looked back at  Thrill Ride of Love. The water was subsiding. Our boat had been 
smashed  pieces against  gates. 

A hundred yards away, at  entrance pool,  Cupids were still filming. The statues had swiveled 
so that their cameras were trained straight  us,  spotlights  our faces. 

"Show's over!"  yelled. "Thank ! Good night!" 



The Cupids turned back  their original positions. The lights shut off. The park went quiet and dark 
again, except for  gentle trickle of water into  Thrill Ride of Love's exit pool.  wondered if 
Olympus had gone   commercial break, or if our ratings had been any good. 

 hated being teased.  hated being tricked. And  had plenty of experience handling bullies who 
liked  do that stuff  .  hefted  shield  my arm and turned  my friends. "We need  have  
little talk with Ares." 

The war god was waiting for us   diner parking lot. 
"Well, well," he said. "You didn't get yourself killed." 
"You knew  was  trap,"  said. 

Ares gave   wicked grin. "Bet that crippled blacksmith was surprised when he netted  couple of 
stupid kids. You looked good  TV." 

 shoved his shield at him. "You're  jerk." 

Annabeth and Grover caught their breath. 

Ares grabbed  shield and spun    air like pizza dough. It changed form, melting into  
bulletproof vest. He slung  across his back. 

"See that truck over there?" He pointed  an eighteen-wheeler parked across  street from  
diner. "That's your ride. Take  straight  L.A., with one stop  Vegas." 

The eighteen-wheeler had  sign   back, which  could read only because  was reverse-printed 
white  black,  good combination for dyslexia: KINDNESS INTERNATIONAL: HUMANE ZOO 
TRANSPORT. WARNING: LIVE WILD ANIMALS. 

 said, "You're kidding." 

Ares snapped his fingers. The back door of  truck unlatched. "Free ride west, punk. Stop 
complaining. And here's  little something for doing  job." 

He slung  blue nylon backpack off his handlebars and tossed   . 

Inside were fresh clothes for all of us, twenty bucks  cash,  pouch full of golden drachmas, and  
bag of Double Stuf Oreos. 

 said, " don't want your lousy — " 

"Thank , Lord Ares," Grover interrupted, giving  his best red-alert warning look. "Thanks  
lot." 

 gritted my teeth. It was probably  deadly insult  refuse something from  god, but  didn't want 
anything that Ares had touched. Reluctantly,  slung  backpack over my shoulder.  knew my anger 
was being caused by  war god's presence, but  was still itching  punch him   nose. He 
reminded  of every bully 'd ever faced: Nancy Bobofit, Clarisse, Smelly Gabe, sarcastic teachers — 
every jerk who'd called  stupid  school or laughed at  when 'd gotten expelled. 

 looked back at  diner, which had only  couple of customers now. The waitress who'd served us 
dinner was watching nervously out  window, like she was afraid Ares might hurt us. She dragged  
fry cook out from  kitchen  see. She said something  him. He nodded, held up  little disposable 
camera and snapped  picture of us. 

Great,  thought. We'll make  papers again tomorrow. 

 imagined  headline: TWELVE-YEAR-OLD OUTLAW BEATS UP DEFENSELESS BIKER. 



"You owe  one more thing,"  told Ares, trying  keep my voice level. "You promised  
information about my mother." 

"You sure  can handle  news?" He kick-started his motorcycle. "She's not dead." 

The ground seemed  spin beneath . "What do  mean?" 

" mean she was taken away from  Minotaur before she could die. She was turned into  shower 
of gold, right? That's metamorphosis. Not death. She's being kept." 

"Kept. Why?" 

"You need  study war, punk. Hostages. You take somebody  control somebody else." 

"Nobody's controlling ." 

He laughed. "Oh yeah? See  around, kid." 

 balled up my fists. "You're pretty smug, Lord Ares, for  guy who runs from Cupid statues." 

Behind his sunglasses, fire glowed.  felt  hot wind  my hair. "We'll meet again, Percy Jackson. 
Next time 're   fight, watch your back." 

He revved his Harley, then roared off down Delancy Street. 
Annabeth said, "That was not smart, Percy." 
" don't care." 

"You don't want  god as your enemy. Especially not that god." 
"Hey, guys," Grover said. " hate  interrupt, but . . ." 

He pointed toward  diner. At  register,  last two customers were paying their check, two 
men  identical black coveralls, with  white logo  their backs that matched  one   
KINDNESS INTERNATIONAL truck. 

"If we're taking  zoo express," Grover said, "we need  hurry." 

 didn't like , but we had no better option. Besides, 'd seen enough of Denver. 

We ran across  street and climbed   back of  big rig, closing  doors behind us. 

The first thing that hit  was  smell. It was like  world's biggest pan of kitty litter. 

The trailer was dark inside until  uncapped Anaklusmos. The blade cast  faint bronze light over  
very sad scene. Sitting   row of filthy metal cages were three of  most pathetic zoo animals 'd 
ever beheld:  zebra,  male albino lion, and some weird antelope thing  didn't know  name for. 

Someone had thrown  lion  sack of turnips, which he obviously didn't want  eat. The zebra 
and  antelope had each gotten  Styrofoam tray of hamburger meat. The zebra's mane was matted 
with chewing gum, like somebody had been spitting    their spare time. The antelope had  stupid 
silver birthday balloon tied  one of his horns that read OVER THE HILL! 

Apparently, nobody had wanted  get close enough   lion  mess with him, but  poor thing 
was pacing around  soiled blankets,   space way too small for him, panting from  stuffy heat of 
 trailer. He had flies buzzing around his pink eyes and his ribs showed through his white fur. 

"This  kindness?" Grover yelled. "Humane zoo transport?" 

He probably would 've gone right back outside  beat up  truckers with his reed pipes, and  
would've helped him, but just then  truck's engine roared  life,  trailer started shaking, and we 
were forced  sit down or fall down. 

We huddled   corner  some mildewed feed sacks, trying  ignore  smell and  heat and 
 flies. Grover talked   animals   series of goat bleats, but  just stared at him sadly. 
Annabeth was  favor of breaking  cages and freeing them   spot, but  pointed out  wouldn't 
do much good until  truck stopped moving. Besides,  had  feeling we might look  lot better   



lion than those turnips. 

 found  water jug and refilled their bowls, then used Anaklusmos  drag  mismatched food out 
of their cages.  gave  meat   lion and  turnips   zebra and  antelope. 

Grover calmed  antelope down, while Annabeth used her knife  cut  balloon off his horn. 
She wanted  cut  gum out of  zebra's mane, too, but we decided that would be too risky with  
truck bumping around. We told Grover  promise  animals we'd help them more   morning, 
then we settled  for night. 

Grover curled up   turnip sack; Annabeth opened our bag of Double Stuf Oreos and nibbled  
one halfheartedly;  tried  cheer myself up by concentrating   fact that we were halfway  Los 
Angeles. Halfway  our destination. It was only June fourteenth. The solstice wasn't until  twenty- 
first. We could make   plenty of time. 

On  other hand,  had no idea what  expect next. The gods kept toying with . At least 
Hephaestus had  decency  be honest about  — he'd put up cameras and advertised  as 
entertainment. But even when  cameras weren't rolling,  had  feeling my quest was being watched. 
 was  source of amusement for  gods. 

"Hey," Annabeth said, " sorry for freaking out back at  water park, Percy." 

"That's okay." 

" just . . ." She shuddered. "Spiders." 

"Because of  Arachne story,"  guessed. "She got turned into  spider for challenging your mom 
  weaving contest, right?" 

Annabeth nodded. "Arachne 's children have been taking revenge   children of Athena ever 
since. If there's  spider within  mile of , 'll find .  hate  creepy little things. Anyway,  owe 
." 

"We're  team, remember?"  said. "Besides, Grover did  fancy flying." 

 thought he was asleep, but he mumbled from  corner, " was pretty amazing, wasn't ?" 

Annabeth and  laughed. 

She pulled apart an Oreo, handed  half. "In  Iris message . . . did Luke really say nothing?" 

 munched my cookie and thought about how  answer. The conversation via rainbow had bothered 
 all evening. "Luke said  and he go way back. He also said Grover wouldn't fail  time. 
Nobody would turn into  pine tree." 

In  dim bronze light of  sword blade,  was hard  read their expressions. 

Grover let out  mournful bray. 

" should've told   truth from  beginning." His voice trembled. " thought if  knew 
what  failure  was,  wouldn't want  along." 

"You were  satyr who tried  rescue Thalia,  daughter of Zeus." 
He nodded glumly. 

"And  other two half-bloods Thalia befriended,  ones who got safely  camp ..."  looked at 
Annabeth. "That was  and Luke, wasn't ?" 

She put down her Oreo, uneaten. "Like  said, Percy,  seven-year-old half-blood wouldn't have 
made  very far alone. Athena guided  toward help. Thalia was twelve. Luke was fourteen. They'd 
both run away from home, like . They were happy  take  with them. They were . . . amazing 
monster-fighters, even without training. We traveled north from Virginia without any real plans, fending 
off monsters for about two weeks before Grover found us." 



" was supposed  escort Thalia  camp," he said, sniffling. "Only Thalia.  had strict orders from 
Chiron: don't do anything that would slow down  rescue. We knew Hades was after her, see, but  
couldn't just leave Luke and Annabeth by themselves.  thought ...  thought  could lead all three of 
them  safety. It was my fault  Kindly Ones caught up with us.  froze.  got scared   way back 
 camp and took some wrong turns. If 'd just been  little quicker . . ." 

"Stop ," Annabeth said. "No one blames . Thalia didn't blame  either." 

"She sacrificed herself  save us," he said miserably. "Her death was my fault. The Council of 
Cloven Elders said so." 

"Because  wouldn't leave two other half-bloods behind?"  said. "That's not fair." 

"Percy's right," Annabeth said. " wouldn't be here today if  weren't for , Grover. Neither 
would Luke. We don't care what  council says." 

Grover kept sniffling   dark. " just my luck.   lamest satyr ever, and  find  two 
most powerful half-bloods of  century, Thalia and Percy." 

"You're not lame," Annabeth insisted. "You've got more courage than any satyr 've ever met. 
Name one other who would dare go   Underworld.  bet Percy  really glad 're here right now." 
She kicked    shin. 

"Yeah,"  said, which  would've done even without  kick. " not luck that  found Thalia 
and , Grover. You've got  biggest heart of any satyr ever. You're  natural searcher. That's why 
'll be  one who finds Pan." 

 heard  deep, satisfied sigh.  waited for Grover  say something, but his breathing only got 
heavier. When  sound turned  snoring,  realized he'd fallen sleep. 

"How does he do that?"  marveled. 

" don't know," Annabeth said. "But that was really  nice thing  told him." 
" meant ." 

We rode  silence for  few miles, bumping around   feed sacks. The zebra munched  turnip. 
The lion licked  last of  hamburger meat off his lips and looked at  hopefully. 

Annabeth rubbed her necklace like she was thinking deep, strategic thoughts. 
"That pine-tree bead,"  said. "Is that from your first year?" 
She looked. She hadn't realized what she was doing. 

"Yeah," she said. "Every August,  counselors pick  most important event of  summer, and 
 paint   that year's beads. 've got Thalia's pine tree,  Greek trireme  fire,  centaur   prom 
dress — now that was  weird summer. . . ." 

"And  college ring  your father's?" 

"That's none of your — " She stopped herself. "Yeah. Yeah,  ." 
"You don't have  tell ." 

"No . . .  okay." She took  shaky breath. "My dad sent    folded up   letter, two 
summers ago. The ring was, like, his main keepsake from Athena. He wouldn't have gotten through his 
doctoral program at Harvard without her. . . . That's  long story. Anyway, he said he wanted   have 
. He apologized for being  jerk, said he loved  and missed . He wanted   come home and 
live with him." 

"That doesn't sound so bad." 

"Yeah, well . . .  problem was,  believed him.  tried  go home for that school year, but my 
stepmom was  same as ever. She didn't want her kids put  danger by living with  freak. Monsters 



attacked. We argued. Monsters attacked. We argued.  didn't even make  through winter break.  called 
Chiron and came right back  Camp Half-Blood." 

"You think 'll ever try living with your dad again?" 

She wouldn't meet my eyes. "Please.  not into self-inflicted pain." 

"You shouldn't give up,"  told her. "You should write him  letter or something." 

"Thanks for  advice," she said coldly, "but my father's made his choice about who he wants  
live with." 

We passed another few miles of silence. 

"So if  gods fight,"  said, "will things line up  way  did with  Trojan War? Will  be 
Athena versus Poseidon?" 

She put her head against  backpack Ares had given us, and closed her eyes. " don't know what 
my mom will do.  just know 'll fight next  ." 

"Why?" 

"Because 're my friend, Seaweed Brain. Any more stupid questions?" 
 couldn't think of an answer for that. Fortunately  didn't have . Annabeth was asleep. 
 had trouble following her example, with Grover snoring and an albino lion staring hungrily at , 
but eventually  closed my eyes. 

* * * 

My nightmare started out as something 'd dreamed  million times before:  was being forced  
take  standardized test while wearing  straitjacket. All  other kids were going out  recess, and  
teacher kept saying, Come , Percy. You 're not stupid, are  ? Pick up your pencil. 

Then  dream strayed from  usual. 

 looked over at  next desk and saw  girl sitting there, also wearing  straitjacket. She was my 
age, with unruly black, punk-style hair, dark eyeliner around her stormy green eyes, and freckles across 
her nose. Somehow,  knew who she was. She was Thalia, daughter of Zeus. 

She struggled against  straitjacket, glared at   frustration, and snapped, Well, Seaweed Brain ? 
One of us has  get out of here. 

She's right, my dream-self thought.  going back  that cavern.  going  give Hades  piece 
of my mind. 

The straitjacket melted off .  fell through  classroom floor. The teacher's voice changed until 
 was cold and evil, echoing from  depths of  great chasm. 
Percy Jackson,  said. Yes,  exchange went well,  see. 

 was back   dark cavern, spirits of  dead drifting around . Unseen   pit,  
monstrous thing was speaking, but  time  wasn't addressing . The numbing power of its voice 
seemed directed somewhere else. 

And he suspects nothing?  asked. 

Another voice, one  almost recognized, answered at my shoulder. Nothing, my lord. He  as 
ignorant as  rest. 

 looked over, but no one was there. The speaker was invisible. 
Deception upon deception,  thing   pit mused aloud. Excellent. 

Truly, my lord, said  voice next  ,  are well-named  Crooked One. But was  really 
necessary?  could have brought  what  stole directly — 

You?  monster said  scorn. You have already shown your limits. You would have failed  



completely had  not intervened. 
But, my lord — 

Peace, little servant. Our six months have bought us much. Zeus's anger has grown. Poseidon has 
played his most desperate card. Now we shall use  against him. Shortly  shall have  reward  
wish, and your revenge. As soon as both items are delivered into my hands . . . but wait. He  here. 

What? The invisible servant suddenly sounded tense. You summoned him, my lord? 

No. The full force of  monster's attention was now pouring over , freezing   place. Blast 
his father's blood — he  too changeable, too unpredictable. The boy brought himself hither. 

Impossible!  servant cried. 

For  weakling such as , perhaps,  voice snarled. Then its cold power turned back  . So . 
. .  wish  dream of your quest, young half-blood? Then  will oblige. 
The scene changed. 

 was standing   vast throne room with black marble walls and bronze floors. The empty, horrid 
throne was made from human bones fused together. Standing at  foot of  dais was my mother, 
frozen  shimmering golden light, her arms outstretched. 

 tried  step toward her, but my legs wouldn't move.  reached for her, only  realize that my 
hands were withering  bones. Grinning skeletons  Greek armor crowded around , draping  
with silk robes, wreathing my head with laurels that smoked with Chimera poison, burning into my 
scalp. 

The evil voice began  laugh. Hail,  conquering hero! 
 woke with  start. 

Grover was shaking my shoulder. "The truck's stopped," he said. "We think  coming  check 
  animals." 

"Hide!" Annabeth hissed. 

She had  easy. She just put  her magic cap and disappeared. Grover and  had  dive behind feed 
sacks and hope we looked like turnips. 

The trailer doors creaked open. Sunlight and heat poured . 

"Man!" one of  truckers said, waving his hand  front of his ugly nose. " wish  hauled 
appliances." He climbed inside and poured some water from  jug into  animals' dishes. 

"You hot, big boy?" he asked  lion, then splashed  rest of  bucket right   lion's face. 
The lion roared  indignation. 
"Yeah, yeah, yeah,"  man said. 

Next  , under  turnip sacks, Grover tensed. For  peace-loving herbivore, he looked 
downright murderous. 

The trucker threw  antelope  squashed-looking Happy Meal bag. He smirked at  zebra. "How 
ya doin', Stripes? Least we'll be getting rid of   stop. You like magic shows? You're gonna love 
 one. They're gonna saw   half!" 

The zebra, wild-eyed with fear, looked straight at . 

There was no sound, but as clear as day,  heard  say: Free , lord. Please. 

 was too stunned  react. 

There was  loud knock, knock, knock   side of  trailer. 
The trucker inside with us yelled, "What do  want, Eddie?" 



A voice outside —  must've been Eddie's — shouted back, "Maurice? What'd ya say?" 

"What are  banging for?" 

Knock, knock, knock. 

Outside, Eddie yelled, "What banging?" 

Our guy Maurice rolled his eyes and went back outside, cursing at Eddie for being an idiot. 

A second later, Annabeth appeared next  . She must've done  banging  get Maurice out of 
 trailer. She said, "This transport business can't be legal." 

"No kidding," Grover said. He paused, as if listening. "The lion says these guys are animal 
smugglers!" 

That's right,  zebra's voice said  my mind. 

"We've got  free them!" Grover said. He and Annabeth both looked at , waiting for my lead. 

'd heard  zebra talk, but not  lion. Why? Maybe  was another learning disability ...  could 
only understand zebras? Then  thought: horses. What had Annabeth said about Poseidon creating 
horses? Was  zebra close enough   horse? Was that why  could understand ? 

The zebra said, Open my cage, lord. Please. 'll be fine after that. 

Outside, Eddie and Maurice were still yelling at each other, but  knew 'd be coming inside  
torment  animals again any minute.  grabbed Riptide and slashed  lock off  zebra's cage. 

The zebra burst out. It turned   and bowed. Thank , lord. 

Grover held up his hands and said something   zebra  goat talk, like  blessing. 

Just as Maurice was poking his head back inside  check out  noise,  zebra leaped over him 
and into  street. There was yelling and screaming and cars honking. We rushed   doors of  
trailer  time  see  zebra galloping down  wide boulevard lined with hotels and casinos and neon 
signs. We'd just released  zebra  Las Vegas. 

Maurice and Eddie ran after , with  few policemen running after them, shouting, "Hey! You need 
 permit for that!" 

"Now would be  good time  leave," Annabeth said. 

"The other animals first," Grover said. 

 cut  locks with my sword. Grover raised his hands and spoke  same goat-blessing he'd used 
for  zebra. 

"Good luck,"  told  animals. The antelope and  lion burst out of their cages and went off 
together into  streets. 

Some tourists screamed. Most just backed off and took pictures, probably thinking  was some kind 
of stunt by one of  casinos. 

"Will  animals be okay?"  asked Grover. " mean,  desert and all — " 
"Don't worry," he said. " placed  satyr's sanctuary  them." 
"Meaning?" 

"Meaning  reach  wild safely," he said. "They'll find water, food, shade, whatever  
need until  find  safe place  live." 

"Why can't  place  blessing like that  us?"  asked. 
"It only works  wild animals." 
"So  would only affect Percy," Annabeth reasoned. 
"Hey!"  protested. 



"Kidding," she said. "Come . Let's get out of  filthy truck." 

We stumbled out into  desert afternoon. It was  hundred and ten degrees, easy, and we must've 
looked like deep-fried vagrants, but everybody was too interested   wild animals  pay us much 
attention. 

We passed  Monte Carlo and  MGM. We passed pyramids,  pirate ship, and  Statue of 
Liberty, which was  pretty small replica, but still made  homesick. 

 wasn't sure what we were looking for. Maybe just  place  get out of  heat for  few minutes, 
find  sandwich and  glass of lemonade, make  new plan for getting west. 

We must have taken  wrong turn, because we found ourselves at  dead end, standing  front of  
Lotus Hotel and Casino. The entrance was  huge neon flower,  petals lighting up and blinking. No 
one was going  or out, but  glittering chrome doors were open, spilling out air-conditioning that 
smelled like flowers — lotus blossom, maybe. 'd never smelled one, so  wasn't sure. 

The doorman smiled at us. "Hey, kids. You look tired. You want  come  and sit down?" 

'd learned  be suspicious,  last week or so.  figured anybody might be  monster or  god. You 
just couldn't tell. But  guy was normal. One look at him, and  could see. Besides,  was so relieved 
 hear somebody who sounded sympathetic that  nodded and said we'd love  come . Inside, we 
took one look around, and Grover said, "Whoa." 

The whole lobby was  giant game room. And  not talking about cheesy old Pac-Man games or 
slot machines. There was an indoor waterslide snaking around  glass elevator, which went straight up 
at least forty floors. There was  climbing wall   side of one building, and an indoor bungee- 
jumping bridge. There were virtual-reality suits with working laser guns. And hundreds of video games, 
each one  size of  widescreen TV. Basically,  name ,  place had . There were  few other 
kids playing, but not that many. No waiting for any of  games. There were waitresses and snack bars 
all around, serving every kind of food  can imagine. 

"Hey!"  bellhop said. At least  guessed he was  bellhop. He wore  white-and-yellow Hawaiian 
shirt with lotus designs, shorts, and flip-flops. "Welcome   Lotus Casino. Here's your room key." 

 stammered, "Um, but ..." 

"No, no," he said, laughing. "The bill's taken care of. No extra charges, no tips. Just go  up   
top floor, room 4001. If  need anything, like extra bubbles for  hot tub, or skeet targets for  
shooting range, or whatever, just call  front desk. Here are your LotusCash cards. They work   
restaurants and  all  games and rides." 

He handed us each  green plastic credit card. 

 knew there must be some mistake. Obviously he thought we were some millionaire's kids. But  
took  card and said, "How much   here?" 

His eyebrows knit together. "What do  mean?" 

" mean, when does  run out of cash?" 

He laughed. "Oh, 're making  joke. Hey, that's cool. Enjoy your stay." 

We took  elevator upstairs and checked out our room. It was  suite with three separate bedrooms 
and  bar stocked with candy, sodas, and chips. A hotline  room service. Fluffy towels and water beds 
with feather pillows. A big-screen television with satellite and high-speed Internet. The balcony had its 
own hot tub, and sure enough, there was  skeet-shooting machine and  shotgun, so  could launch 
clay pigeons right out over  Las Vegas skyline and plug them with your gun.  didn't see how that 
could be legal, but  thought  was pretty cool. The view over  Strip and  desert was amazing, 
though  doubted we'd ever find time  look at  view with  room like . 



"Oh, goodness," Annabeth said. "This place  . . ." 
"Sweet," Grover said. "Absolutely sweet." 

There were clothes   closet, and  fit .  frowned, thinking that  was  little strange. 
 threw Ares's backpack   trash can. Wouldn't need that anymore. When we left,  could just 
charge  new one at  hotel store. 

 took  shower, which felt awesome after  week of grimy travel.  changed clothes, ate  bag of 
chips, drank three Cokes, and came out feeling better than  had   long time. In  back of my mind, 
some small problem kept nagging . 'd had  dream or something ...  needed  talk  my friends. 
But  was sure  could wait. 

 came out of  bedroom and found that Annabeth and Grover had also showered and changed 
clothes. Grover was eating potato chips  his heart's content, while Annabeth cranked up  National 
Geographic Channel. 

"All those stations,"  told her, "and  turn  National Geographic. Are  insane?" 
" interesting." 

" feel good," Grover said. " love  place." 

Without his even realizing ,  wings sprouted out of his shoes and lifted him  foot off  
ground, then back down again. 

"So what now?" Annabeth asked. "Sleep?" 

Grover and  looked at each other and grinned. We both held up our green plastic LotusCash cards. 
"Play time,"  said. 

 couldn't remember  last time  had so much fun.  came from  relatively poor family. Our idea 
of  splurge was eating out at Burger King and renting  video. A five-star Vegas hotel? Forget . 

 bungee-jumped  lobby five or six times, did  waterslide, snowboarded  artificial ski slope, 
and played virtual-reality laser tag and FBI sharpshooter.  saw Grover  few times, going from game  
game. He really liked  reverse hunter thing — where  deer go out and shoot  rednecks.  saw 
Annabeth playing trivia games and other brainiac stuff. They had  huge 3-D sim game where  
build your own city, and  could actually see  holographic buildings rise   display board.  
didn't think much of , but Annabeth loved . 

 not sure when  first realized something was wrong. 

Probably,  was when  noticed  guy standing next   at VR sharpshooters. He was about 
thirteen,  guess, but his clothes were weird.  thought he was some Elvis impersonator's son. He wore 
bell-bottom jeans and  red T-shirt with black piping, and his hair was permed and gelled like  New 
Jersey girl's  homecoming night. 

We played  game of sharpshooters together and he said, "Groovy, man. Been here two weeks, and 
 games keep getting better and better." 

Groovy? 

Later, while we were talking,  said something was "sick," and he looked at  kind of startled, as if 
he'd never heard  word used that way before. 

He said his name was Darrin, but as soon as  started asking him questions he got bored with  and 
started  go back   computer screen. 

 said, "Hey, Darrin?" 

"What?" 

"What year  ?" 



He frowned at . "In  game?" 

"No. In real life." 

He had  think about . "1977." 

"No,"  said, getting  little scared. "Really." 

"Hey, man. Bad vibes.  got  game happening." 

After that he totally ignored . 

 started talking  people, and  found  wasn't easy. They were glued   TV screen, or  
video game, or their food, or whatever.  found  guy who told   was 1985. Another guy told   
was 1993. They all claimed  hadn't been  here very long,  few days,  few weeks at most. They 
didn't really know and  didn't care. 

Then  occurred  : how long had  been here? It seemed like only  couple of hours, but was ? 

 tried  remember why we were here. We were going  Los Angeles. We were supposed  find 
 entrance   Underworld. My mother ... for  scary second,  had trouble remembering her name. 
Sally. Sally Jackson.  had  find her.  had  stop Hades from causing World War III. 

 found Annabeth still building her city. 

"Come ,"  told her. "We've got  get out of here." 

No response. 

 shook her. "Annabeth?" 

She looked up, annoyed. "What?" 

"We need  leave." 

"Leave? What are  talking about? 've just got  towers — " 
"This place   trap." 

She didn't respond until  shook her again. "What?" 

"Listen. The Underworld. Our quest!" 

"Oh, come , Percy. Just  few more minutes." 

"Annabeth, there are people here from 1977. Kids who have never aged. You check , and  stay 
forever." 

"So?" she asked. "Can  imagine  better place?" 
 grabbed her wrist and yanked her away from  game. 

"Hey!" She screamed and hit , but nobody else even bothered looking at us. They were too busy. 

 made her look directly  my eyes.  said, "Spiders. Large, hairy spiders." 

That jarred her. Her vision cleared. "Oh my gods," she said. "How long have we — " 

" don't know, but we've got  find Grover." 

We went searching, and found him still playing Virtual Deer Hunter. 

"Grover!" we both shouted. 

He said, "Die, human! Die, silly polluting nasty person!" 
"Grover!" 

He turned  plastic gun   and started clicking, as if  were just another image from  screen. 

 looked at Annabeth, and together we took Grover by  arms and dragged him away. His flying 
shoes sprang  life and started tugging his legs   other direction as he shouted, "No!  just got   
new level! No!" 



The Lotus bellhop hurried up  us. "Well, now, are  ready for your platinum cards?" 
"We're leaving,"  told him. 

"Such  shame," he said, and  got  feeling that he really meant , that we'd be breaking his heart 
if we went. "We just added an entire new floor full of games for platinum-card members." 

He held out  cards, and  wanted one.  knew that if  took one, 'd never leave. 'd stay here, 
happy forever, playing games forever, and soon 'd forget my mom, and my quest, and maybe even my 
own name. 'd be playing virtual rifleman with groovy Disco Darrin forever. 

Grover reached for  card, but Annabeth yanked back his arm and said, "No, thanks." 

We walked toward  door, and as we did,  smell of  food and  sounds of  games 
seemed  get more and more inviting.  thought about our room upstairs. We could just stay  night, 
sleep   real bed for once. . . . 

Then we burst through  doors of  Lotus Casino and ran down  sidewalk. It felt like 
afternoon, about  same time of day we'd gone into  casino, but something was wrong. The 
weather had completely changed. It was stormy, with heat lightning flashing out   desert. 

Ares's backpack was slung over my shoulder, which was odd, because  was sure  had thrown   
 trash can  room 4001, but at  moment  had other problems  worry about. 

 ran   nearest newspaper stand and read  year first. Thank  gods,  was  same year  
had been when we went . Then  noticed  date: June twentieth. 

We had been   Lotus Casino for five days. 

We had only one day left until  summer solstice. One day  complete our quest. 

It was Annabeth's idea. 

She loaded us into  back of  Vegas taxi as if we actually had money, and told  driver, "Los 
Angeles, please." 

The cabbie chewed his cigar and sized us up. "That's three hundred miles. For that,  gotta pay up 
front." 

"You accept casino debit cards?" Annabeth asked. 

He shrugged. "Some of 'em. Same as credit cards.  gotta swipe 'em through first." 
Annabeth handed him her green LotusCash card. 
He looked at  skeptically. 
"Swipe ," Annabeth invited. 
He did. 

His meter machine started rattling. The lights flashed. Finally an infinity symbol came up next   
dollar sign. 

The cigar fell out of  driver's mouth. He looked back at us, his eyes wide. "Where   Los 
Angeles. . . uh, Your Highness?" 

"The Santa Monica Pier." Annabeth sat up  little straighten  could tell she liked  "Your 
Highness" thing. "Get us there fast, and  can keep  change." 

Maybe she shouldn't have told him that. 

The cab's speedometer never dipped below ninety-five  whole way through  Mojave Desert. 

On  road, we had plenty of time  talk.  told Annabeth and Grover about my latest dream, but 
 details got sketchier  more  tried  remember them. The Lotus Casino seemed  have short- 
circuited my memory.  couldn't recall what  invisible servant's voice had sounded like, though  was 
sure  was somebody  knew. The servant had called  monster   pit something other than "my 
lord" . . . some special name or title. . . . 

"The Silent One?" Annabeth suggested. "The Rich One? Both of those are nicknames for Hades." 

"Maybe ..."  said, though neither sounded quite right. 

"That throne room sounds like Hades's," Grover said. "That's  way  usually described." 

 shook my head. "Something's wrong. The throne room wasn't  main part of  dream. And that 
voice from  pit ...  don't know. It just didn't feel like  god's voice." 
Annabeth's eyes widened. 
"What?"  asked. 

"Oh . . . nothing.  was just — No,  has  be Hades. Maybe he sent  thief,  invisible person, 
 get  master bolt, and something went wrong — " 

"Like what?" 



" —  don't know," she said. "But if he stole Zeus's symbol of power from Olympus, and  gods 
were hunting him,  mean,  lot of things could go wrong. So  thief had  hide  bolt, or he lost  
somehow. Anyway, he failed  bring   Hades. That's what  voice said  your dream, right? The 
guy failed. That would explain what  Furies were searching for when  came after us   bus. 
Maybe  thought we had retrieved  bolt." 

 wasn't sure what was wrong with her. She looked pale. 

"But if 'd already retrieved  bolt,"  said, "why would  be traveling   Underworld?" 
"To threaten Hades," Grover suggested. "To bribe or blackmail him into getting your mom back." 
 whistled. "You have evil thoughts for  goat." 
"Why, thank ." 

"But  thing   pit said  was waiting for two items,"  said. "If  master bolt  one, what's 
 other?" 

Grover shook his head, clearly mystified. 

Annabeth was looking at  as if she knew my next question, and was silently willing  not  ask 

. 

"You have an idea what might be  that pit, don't ?"  asked her. " mean, if  isn't Hades?" 
"Percy . . . let's not talk about . Because if  isn't Hades . . . No. It has  be Hades." 
Wasteland rolled by. We passed  sign that said CALIFORNIA STATE LINE, 12 MILES. 

 got  feeling  was missing one simple, critical piece of information. It was like when  stared at 
 common word  should know, but  couldn't make sense of  because one or two letters were floating 
around. The more  thought about my quest,  more  was sure that confronting Hades wasn't  real 
answer. There was something else going , something even more dangerous. 

The problem was: we were hurtling toward  Underworld at ninety-five miles an hour, betting that 
Hades had  master bolt. If we got there and found out we were wrong, we wouldn't have time  
correct ourselves. The solstice deadline would pass and war would begin. 

"The answer    Underworld," Annabeth assured . "You saw spirits of  dead, Percy. 
There's only one place that could be. We're doing  right thing." 

She tried  boost our morale by suggesting clever strategies for getting into  Land of  Dead, 
but my heart wasn't  . There were just too many unknown factors. It was like cramming for  test 
without knowing  subject. And believe , 'd done that enough times. 

The cab sped west. Every gust of wind through Death Valley sounded like  spirit of  dead. Every 
time  brakes hissed  an eighteen-wheeler,  reminded  of Echidna's reptilian voice. 

At sunset,  taxi dropped us at  beach  Santa Monica. It looked exactly  way L.A. beaches 
do   movies, only  smelled worse. There were carnival rides lining  Pier, palm trees lining  
sidewalks, homeless guys sleeping   sand dunes, and surfer dudes waiting for  perfect wave. 

Grover, Annabeth, and  walked down   edge of  surf. 

"What now?" Annabeth asked. 

The Pacific was turning gold   setting sun.  thought about how long  had been since 'd stood 
  beach at Montauk,   opposite side of  country, looking out at  different sea. 

How could there be  god who could control all that? What did my science teacher used  say — 
two-thirds of  earth's surface was covered  water? How could  be  son of someone that 
powerful? 

 stepped into  surf. 



"Percy?" Annabeth said. "What are  doing?" 
 kept walking, up  my waist, then my chest. 

She called after , "You know how polluted that water ? There're all kinds of toxic — " 
That's when my head went under. 

 held my breath at first.  difficult  intentionally inhale water. Finally  couldn't stand  
anymore.  gasped. Sure enough,  could breathe normally. 

 walked down into  shoals.  shouldn't have been able  see through  murk, but somehow  
could tell where everything was.  could sense  rolling texture of  bottom.  could make out sand- 
dollar colonies dotting  sandbars.  could even see  currents, warm and cold streams swirling 
together. 

 felt something rub against my leg.  looked down and almost shot out of  water like  ballistic 
missile. Sliding along beside  was  five-foot-long mako shark. 

But  thing wasn't attacking. It was nuzzling . Heeling like  dog. Tentatively,  touched its 
dorsal fin. It bucked  little, as if inviting   hold tighter.  grabbed  fin with both hands. It took 
off, pulling  along. The shark carried  down into  darkness. It deposited  at  edge of  
ocean proper, where  sand bank dropped off into  huge chasm. It was like standing   rim of  
Grand Canyon at midnight, not being able  see much, but knowing  void was right there. 

The surface shimmered maybe  hundred and fifty feet above.  knew  should 've been crushed by 
 pressure. Then again,  shouldn't have been able  breathe.  wondered if there was  limit  how 
deep  could go, if  could sink straight   bottom of  Pacific. 

Then  saw something glimmering   darkness below, growing bigger and brighter as  rose 
toward . A woman's voice, like my mother's, called: "Percy Jackson." 

As she got closer, her shape became clearer. She had flowing black hair,  dress made of green silk. 
Light flickered around her, and her eyes were so distractingly beautiful  hardly noticed  stallion- 
sized sea horse she was riding. 

She dismounted. The sea horse and  mako shark whisked off and started playing something that 
looked like tag. The underwater lady smiled at . "You've come far, Percy Jackson. Well done." 

 wasn't quite sure what  do, so  bowed. "You're  woman who spoke     Mississippi 
River." 

"Yes, child.    Nereid,  spirit of  sea. It was not easy  appear so far upriver, but  naiads, 
my freshwater cousins, helped sustain my life force. They honor Lord Poseidon, though  do not 
serve  his court." 

"And . . .  serve  Poseidon's court?" 

She nodded. "It has been many years since  child of  Sea God has been born. We have watched 
 with great interest." 

Suddenly  remembered faces   waves off Montauk Beach when  was  little boy, reflections of 
smiling women. Like so many of  weird things  my life, 'd never given  much thought before. 

"If my father  so interested  ,"  said, "why isn't he here? Why doesn't he speak  ?" 

A cold current rose out of  depths. 

"Do not judge  Lord of  Sea too harshly,"  Nereid told . "He stands at  brink of an 
unwanted war. He has much  occupy his time. Besides, he  forbidden  help  directly. The gods 
may not show such favoritism." 

"Even  their own children?" 



"Especially  them. The gods can work by indirect influence only. That  why  give   
warning, and  gift." 

She held out her hand. Three white pearls flashed  her palm. 

" know  journey  Hades's realm," she said. "Few mortals have ever done  and survived: 
Orpheus, who had great music skill; Hercules, who had great strength; Houdini, who could escape even 
 depths of Tartarus. Do  have these talents?" 

"Urn ... no, ma'am." 

"Ah, but  have something else, Percy. You have gifts  have only begun  know. The oracles 
have foretold  great and terrible future for , should  survive  manhood. Poseidon would not 
have  die before your time. Therefore take these, and when  are  need, smash  pearl at your 
feet." 

"What will happen?" 

"That," she said, "depends   need. But remember: what belongs   sea will always return  
 sea." 

"What about  warning?" 

Her eyes flickered with green light. "Go with what your heart tells , or  will lose all. Hades 
feeds  doubt and hopelessness. He will trick  if he can, make  mistrust your own judgment. 
Once  are  his realm, he will never willingly let  leave. Keep faith. Good luck, Percy Jackson." 

She summoned her sea horse and rode toward  void. 

"Wait!"  called. "At  river,  said not  trust  gifts. What gifts?" 

"Good-bye, young hero," she called back, her voice fading into  depths. "You must listen  your 
heart." She became  speck of glowing green, and then she was gone. 

 wanted  follow her down into  darkness.  wanted  see  court of Poseidon. But  looked 
up at  sunset darkening   surface. My friends were waiting. We had so little time. . . . 

 kicked upward toward  shore. 

When  reached  beach, my clothes dried instantly.  told Grover and Annabeth what had 
happened, and showed them  pearls. 

Annabeth grimaced. "No gift comes without  price." 
"They were free." 

"No." She shook her head. "There  no such thing as  free lunch.' That's an ancient Greek saying 
that translated pretty well into American. There will be  price. You wait." 

On that happy thought, we turned our backs   sea. 

With some spare change from Ares's backpack, we took  bus into West Hollywood.  showed  
driver  Underworld address slip 'd taken from Aunty Em's Garden Gnome Emporium, but he'd 
never heard of DOA Recording Studios. 

"You remind  of somebody  saw  TV," he told . "You  child actor or something?" 

"Uh ...   stunt double ... for  lot of child actors." 

"Oh! That explains ." 

We thanked him and got off quickly at  next stop. 

We wandered for miles  foot, looking for DOA. Nobody seemed  know where  was. It didn't 
appear   phone book. 

Twice, we ducked into alleys  avoid cop cars. 

 froze  front of an appliance-store window because  television was playing an interview with 



somebody who looked very familiar — my stepdad, Smelly Gabe. He was talking  Barbara Walters —  
mean, as if he were some kind of huge celebrity. She was interviewing him  our apartment,   
middle of  poker game, and there was  young blond lady sitting next  him, patting his hand. 

A fake tear glistened  his cheek. He was saying, "Honest, Ms. Walters, if  wasn't for Sugar here, 
my grief counselor, 'd be  wreck. My stepson took everything  cared about. My wife . . . my Camaro . 
. .  —  sorry.  have trouble talking about ." 

"There  have , America." Barbara Walters turned   camera. "A man torn apart. An 
adolescent boy with serious issues. Let  show , again,  last known photo of  troubled young 
fugitive, taken  week ago  Denver." 

The screen cut   grainy shot of , Annabeth, and Grover standing outside  Colorado diner, 
talking  Ares. 

"Who are  other children   photo?" Barbara Walters asked dramatically. "Who   man 
with them? Is Percy Jackson  delinquent,  terrorist, or perhaps  brainwashed victim of  frightening 
new cult? When we come back, we chat with  leading child psychologist. Stay tuned, America." 

"C'mon," Grover told . He hauled  away before  could punch  hole   appliance-store 
window. 

It got dark, and hungry-looking characters started coming out   streets  play. Now, don't get 
 wrong.   New Yorker.  don't scare easy. But L.A. had  totally different feel from New York. 
Back home, everything seemed close. It didn't matter how big  city was,  could get anywhere 
without getting lost. The street pattern and  subway made sense. There was  system  how things 
worked. A kid could be safe as long as he wasn't stupid. 

L.A. wasn't like that. It was spread out, chaotic, hard  move around. It reminded  of Ares. It 
wasn't enough for L.A.  be big;  had  prove  was big by being loud and strange and difficult  
navigate, too.  didn't know how we were ever going  find  entrance   Underworld by 
tomorrow,  summer solstice. 

We walked past gangbangers, bums, and street hawkers, who looked at us like  were trying  
figure if we were worth  trouble of mugging. 

As we hurried passed  entrance of an alley,  voice from  darkness said, "Hey, ." 

Like an idiot,  stopped. 

Before  knew , we were surrounded. A gang of kids had circled us. Six of them  all — white kids 
with expensive clothes and mean faces. Like  kids at Yancy Academy: rich brats playing at being bad 
boys. 

Instinctively,  uncapped Riptide. 

When  sword appeared out of nowhere,  kids backed off, but their leader was either really 
stupid or really brave, because he kept coming at  with  switchblade. 

 made  mistake of swinging. 

The kid yelped. But he must've been one hundred percent mortal, because  blade passed 
harmlessly right through his chest. He looked down. "What  . . ." 

 figured  had about three seconds before his shock turned  anger. "Run!"  screamed at Annabeth 
and Grover. 

We pushed two kids out of  way and raced down  street, not knowing where we were going. 
We turned  sharp corner. 

"There!" Annabeth shouted. 

Only one store   block looked open, its windows glaring with neon. The sign above  door 



said something like CRSTUY'S WATRE BDE ALPACE. 
"Crusty's Water Bed Palace?" Grover translated. 

It didn't sound like  place 'd ever go except  an emergency, but  definitely qualified. 
We burst through  doors, ran behind  water bed, and ducked. A split second later,  gang kids 
ran past outside. 

" think we lost them," Grover panted. 
A voice behind us boomed, "Lost who?" 
We all jumped. 

Standing behind us was  guy who looked like  raptor   leisure suit. He was at least seven feet 
tall, with absolutely no hair. He had gray, leathery skin, thick-lidded eyes, and  cold, reptilian smile. He 
moved toward us slowly, but  got  feeling he could move fast if he needed . 

His suit might've come from  Lotus Casino. It belonged back   seventies, big-time. The shirt 
was silk paisley, unbuttoned halfway down his hairless chest. The lapels  his velvet jacket were as 
wide as landing strips. The silver chains around his neck —  couldn't even count them. 

" Crusty," he said, with  tartar-yellow smile. 

 resisted  urge  say, Yes,  are. 

"Sorry  barge ,"  told him. "We were just, um, browsing." 

"You mean hiding from those no-good kids," he grumbled. "They hang around every night.  get  
lot of people  here, thanks  them. Say,  want  look at  water bed?" 

 was about  say No, thanks, when he put  huge paw  my shoulder and steered  deeper into 
 showroom. 

There was every kind of water bed  could imagine: different kinds of wood, different patterns of 
sheets; queen-size, king-size, emperor-of--universe-size. 

"This  my most popular model." Crusty spread his hands proudly over  bed covered with black 
satin sheets, with built- Lava Lamps   headboard. The mattress vibrated, so  looked like oil- 
flavored Jell-O. 

"Million-hand massage," Crusty told us. "Go , try  out. Shoot, take  nap.  don't care. No 
business today, anyway." 

"Um,"  said, " don't think . . ." 

"Million-hand massage!" Grover cried, and dove . "Oh,  guys! This  cool." 
"Hmm," Crusty said, stroking his leathery chin. "Almost, almost." 
"Almost what?"  asked. 

He looked at Annabeth. "Do   favor and try  one over here, honey. Might fit." 
Annabeth said, "But what — " 

He patted her reassuringly   shoulder and led her over   Safari Deluxe model with 
teakwood lions carved into  frame and  leopard-patterned comforter. When Annabeth didn't want  
lie down, Crusty pushed her. 

"Hey!" she protested. 

Crusty snapped his fingers. "Ergo!" 

Ropes sprang from  sides of  bed, lashing around Annabeth, holding her   mattress. 
Grover tried  get up, but ropes sprang from his black-satin bed, too, and lashed him down. 
"N-not c-c-cool!" he yelled, his voice vibrating from  million-hand massage. "N-not c-cool -at 



all!" 

The giant looked at Annabeth, then turned toward  and grinned. "Almost, darn ." 

 tried  step away, but his hand shot out and clamped around  back of my neck. "Whoa, kid. 
Don't worry. We'll find  one   sec." 
"Let my friends go." 

"Oh, sure  will. But  got  make them fit, first." 
"What do  mean?" 

"All  beds are exactly six feet, see? Your friends are too short. Got  make them fit." 
Annabeth and Grover kept struggling. 

"Can't stand imperfect measurements," Crusty muttered. "Ergo!" 

A new set of ropes leaped out from  top and bottom of  beds, wrapping around Grover and 
Annabeth 's ankles, then around their armpits. The ropes started tightening, pulling my friends from both 
ends. 

"Don't worry," Crusty told . "These are stretching jobs. Maybe three extra inches  their spines. 
They might even live. Now why don't we find  bed  like, huh?" 
"Percy!" Grover yelled. 

My mind was racing.  knew  couldn't take   giant water-bed salesman alone. He would snap 
my neck before  ever got my sword out. 

"Your real name's not Crusty,  ?"  asked. 

"Legally,  Procrustes," he admitted. 

"The Stretcher,"  said.  remembered  story:  giant who'd tried  kill Theseus with excess 
hospitality  his way  Athens. 

"Yeah,"  salesman said. "But who can pronounce Procrustes? Bad for business. Now 'Crusty,' 
anybody can say that." 

"You're right.  got  good ring  ." 

His eyes lit up. "You think so?" 

"Oh, absolutely,"  said. "And  workmanship  these beds? Fabulous!" 

He grinned hugely, but his fingers didn't loosen  my neck. " tell my customers that. Every time. 
Nobody bothers  look at  workmanship. How many built- Lava Lamp headboards have  
seen?" 

"Not too many." 

"That's right!" 

"Percy!" Annabeth yelled. "What are  doing?" 
"Don't mind her,"  told Procrustes. "She's impossible." 

The giant laughed. "All my customers are. Never six feet exactly. So inconsiderate. And then  
complain about  fitting." 

"What do  do if  longer than six feet?" 

"Oh, that happens all  time.   simple fix." 

He let go of my neck, but before  could react, he reached behind  nearby sales desk and brought 
out  huge double-bladed brass axe. He said, " just center  subject as best  can and lop off whatever 
hangs over  either end." 

"Ah,"  said, swallowing hard. "Sensible." 



" so glad  come across an intelligent customer!" 

The ropes were really stretching my friends now. Annabeth was turning pale. Grover made gurgling 
sounds, like  strangled goose. 

"So, Crusty ..."  said, trying  keep my voice light.  glanced at  sales tag   valentine- 
shaped Honeymoon Special. "Does  one really have dynamic stabilizers  stop wave motion?" 
"Absolutely. Try  out." 

"Yeah, maybe  will. But would  work even for  big guy like ? No waves at all?" 

"Guaranteed." 

"No way." 

"Way." 

"Show ." 

He sat down eagerly   bed, patted  mattress. "No waves. See?" 
 snapped my fingers. "Ergo. " 

Ropes lashed around Crusty and flattened him against  mattress. 

"Hey!" he yelled. 

"Center him just right,"  said. 

The ropes readjusted themselves at my command. Crusty's whole head stuck out  top. His feet 
stuck out  bottom. 

"No!" he said. "Wait! This  just  demo." 

 uncapped Riptide. "A few simple adjustments ..." 

 had no qualms about what  was about  do. If Crusty were human,  couldn't hurt him anyway. If 
he was  monster, he deserved  turn into dust for  while. 

"You drive  hard bargain," he told . "'ll give  thirty percent off  selected floor models!" 
" think 'll start with  top."  raised my sword. 
"No money down! No interest for six months!" 
 swung  sword. Crusty stopped making offers. 

 cut  ropes   other beds. Annabeth and Grover got  their feet, groaning and wincing and 
cursing   lot. 

"You look taller,"  said. 

"Very funny," Annabeth said. "Be faster next time." 

 looked at  bulletin board behind Crusty's sales desk. There was an advertisement for Hermes 
Delivery Service, and another for  All-New Compendium of L.A. Area Monsters — "The only 
Monstrous Yellow Pages 'll ever need!" Under that,  bright orange flier for DO A Recording 
Studios, offering commissions for heroes' souls. "We are always looking for new talent!" DOA's 
address was right underneath with  map. 

"Come ,"  told my friends. 

"Give us  minute," Grover complained. "We were almost stretched  death!" 
"Then 're ready for  Underworld,"  said. " only  block from here." 

We stood   shadows of Valencia Boulevard, looking up at gold letters etched  black marble: 
DOA RECORDING STUDIOS. 

Underneath, stenciled   glass doors: NO SOLICITORS. NO LOITERING. NO LIVING. 

It was almost midnight, but  lobby was brightly lit and full of people. Behind  security desk 
sat  tough-looking guard with sunglasses and an earpiece. 
 turned  my friends. "Okay. You remember  plan." 
"The plan," Grover gulped. "Yeah.  love  plan." 
Annabeth said, "What happens if  plan doesn't work?" 
"Don't think negative." 

"Right," she said. "We're entering  Land of  Dead, and  shouldn't think negative." 

 took  pearls out of my pocket,  three milky spheres  Nereid had given   Santa 
Monica. They didn't seem like much of  backup  case something went wrong. 

Annabeth put her hand  my shoulder. " sorry, Percy. You're right, we'll make . It'll be fine." 

She gave Grover  nudge. 

"Oh, right!" he chimed . "We got  far. We'll find  master bolt and save your mom. No 
problem." 

 looked at them both, and felt really grateful. Only  few minutes before, 'd almost gotten them 
stretched  death  deluxe water beds, and now  were trying  be brave for my sake, trying  
make  feel better. 

 slipped  pearls back  my pocket. "Let's whup some Underworld butt." 

We walked inside  DOA lobby. 

Muzak played softly  hidden speakers. The carpet and walls were steel gray. Pencil cactuses grew 
  corners like skeleton hands. The furniture was black leather, and every seat was taken. There were 
people sitting  couches, people standing up, people staring out  windows or waiting for  
elevator. Nobody moved, or talked, or did much of anything. Out of  corner of my eye,  could see 
them all just fine, but if  focused  any one of them  particular,  started looking . . . transparent. 
 could see right through their bodies. 

The security guard's desk was  raised podium, so we had  look up at him. 

He was tall and elegant, with chocolate-colored skin and bleached-blond hair shaved military style. 
He wore tortoiseshell shades and  silk Italian suit that matched his hair. A black rose was pinned  his 
lapel under  silver name tag. 

 read  name tag, then looked at him  bewilderment. "Your name  Chiron?" 
He leaned across  desk.  couldn't see anything  his glasses except my own reflection, but his 
smile was sweet and cold, like  python's, right before  eats . 



"What  precious young lad." He had  strange accent — British, maybe, but also as if he had learned 
English as  second language. "Tell , mate, do  look like  centaur?" 

"N-no." 

"Sir," he added smoothly. 
"Sir,"  said. 

He pinched  name tag and ran his finger under  letters. "Can  read , mate? It says C-H- 
A-R-O-N. Say  with : CARE-ON." 

"Charon." 

"Amazing! Now: Mr. Charon." 
"Mr. Charon,"  said. 

"Well done." He sat back. " hate being confused with that old horse-man. And now, how may  
help  little dead ones?" 

His question caught  my stomach like  fastball.  looked at Annabeth for support. 
"We want  go  Underworld," she said. 
Charon's mouth twitched. "Well, that's refreshing." 
"It ?" she asked. 

"Straightforward and honest. No screaming. No There must be  mistake, Mr. Charon.'" He looked 
us over. "How did  die, then?" 

 nudged Grover. 

"Oh," he said. "Urn . . . drowned ...   bathtub." 
"All three of ?" Charon asked. 
We nodded. 

"Big bathtub." Charon looked mildly impressed. " don't suppose  have coins for passage. 
Normally, with adults,  see,  could charge your American Express, or add  ferry price  your last 
cable bill. But with children . . . alas,  never die prepared. Suppose 'll have  take  seat for  
few centuries." 

"Oh, but we have coins."  set three golden drachmas   counter, part of  stash 'd found  
Crusty's office desk. 

"Well, now . . ." Charon moistened his lips. "Real drachmas. Real golden drachmas.  haven't seen 
these  . . ." 

His fingers hovered greedily over  coins. 

We were so close. 

Then Charon looked at . That cold stare behind his glasses seemed  bore  hole through my 
chest. "Here now," he said. "You couldn't read my name correctly. Are  dyslexic, lad?" 

"No,"  said. " dead." 

Charon leaned forward and took  sniff. "You're not dead.  should've known. You're  godling." 
"We have  get   Underworld,"  insisted. 
Charon made  growling sound deep  his throat. 

Immediately, all  people   waiting room got up and started pacing, agitated, lighting 
cigarettes, running hands through their hair, or checking their wristwatches. 

"Leave while  can," Charon told us. "'ll just take these and forget  saw ." 

He started  go for  coins, but  snatched them back. 



"No service, no tip."  tried  sound braver than  felt. 

Charon growled again —  deep, blood-chilling sound. The spirits of  dead started pounding  
 elevator doors. 

"  shame, too,"  sighed. "We had more  offer." 

 held up  entire bag from Crusty's stash.  took out  fistful of drachmas and let  coins spill 
through my fingers. 

Charon's growl changed into something more like  lion's purr. "Do  think  can be bought, 
godling? Eh . . . just out of curiosity, how much have  got there?" 

"A lot,"  said. " bet Hades doesn't pay  well enough for such hard work." 

"Oh,  don't know  half of . How would  like  babysit these spirits all day? Always 
'Please don't let  be dead' or 'Please let  across for free.'  haven't had  pay raise  three 
thousand years. Do  imagine suits like  come cheap?" 

"You deserve better,"  agreed. "A little appreciation. Respect. Good pay." 

With each word,  stacked another gold coin   counter. 

Charon glanced down at his silk Italian jacket, as if imagining himself  something even better. " 
must say, lad, 're making some sense now. Just  little." 

 stacked another few coins. " could mention  pay raise while  talking  Hades." 
He sighed. "The boat's almost full, anyway.  might as well add  three and be off." 
He stood, scooped up our money, and said, "Come along." 

We pushed through  crowd of waiting spirits, who started grabbing at our clothes like  wind, 
their voices whispering things  couldn't make out. Charon shoved them out of  way, grumbling, 
"Freeloaders." 

He escorted us into  elevator, which was already crowded with souls of  dead, each one 
holding  green boarding pass. Charon grabbed two spirits who were trying  get  with us and 
pushed them back into  lobby. 

"Right. Now, no one get any ideas while  gone," he announced   waiting room. "And if 
anyone moves  dial off my easy-listening station again, 'll make sure 're here for another 
thousand years. Understand?" 

He shut  doors. He put  key card into  slot   elevator panel and we started  descend. 
"What happens   spirits waiting   lobby?" Annabeth asked. 
"Nothing," Charon said. 
"For how long?" 

"Forever, or until  feeling generous." 
"Oh," she said. "That's . . . fair." 

Charon raised an eyebrow. "Whoever said death was fair, young miss? Wait until  your turn. 
You'll die soon enough, where 're going." 
"We'll get out alive,"  said. 
"Ha." 

 got  sudden dizzy feeling. We weren't going down anymore, but forward. The air turned misty. 
Spirits around  started changing shape. Their modern clothes flickered, turning into gray hooded 
robes. The floor of  elevator began swaying. 

 blinked hard. When  opened my eyes, Charon's creamy Italian suit had been replaced by  long 
black robe. His tortoiseshell glasses were gone. Where his eyes should've been were empty sockets — 



like Ares's eyes, except Charon's were totally dark, full of night and death and despair. 
He saw  looking, and said, "Well?" 
"Nothing,"  managed. 

 thought he was grinning, but that wasn't . The flesh of his face was becoming transparent, letting 
 see straight through  his skull. 

The floor kept swaying. 

Grover said, " think  getting seasick." 

When  blinked again,  elevator wasn't an elevator anymore. We were standing   wooden 
barge. Charon was poling us across  dark, oily river, swirling with bones, dead fish, and other, stranger 
things — plastic dolls, crushed carnations, soggy diplomas with gilt edges. 

"The River Styx," Annabeth murmured. " so . . ." 

"Polluted," Charon said. "For thousands of years,  humans have been throwing  everything as 
 come across — hopes, dreams, wishes that never came true. Irresponsible waste management, if  
ask ." 

Mist curled off  filthy water. Above us, almost lost   gloom, was  ceiling of stalactites. 
Ahead,  far shore glimmered with greenish light,  color of poison. 

Panic closed up my throat. What was  doing here? These people around  . . .  were dead. 
Annabeth grabbed hold of my hand. Under normal circumstances,  would've embarrassed , 
but  understood how she felt. She wanted reassurance that somebody else was alive   boat. 

 found myself muttering  prayer, though  wasn't quite sure who  was praying . Down here, only 
one god mattered, and he was  one  had come  confront. 

The shoreline of  Underworld came into view. Craggy rocks and black volcanic sand stretched 
inland about  hundred yards   base of  high stone wall, which marched off  either direction as 
far as we could see. A sound came from somewhere nearby   green gloom, echoing off  stones — 
 howl of  large animal. 

"Old Three-Face  hungry," Charon said. His smile turned skeletal   greenish light. "Bad luck 
for , godlings." 

The bottom of our boat slid onto  black sand. The dead began  disembark. A woman holding  
little girl's hand. An old man and an old woman hobbling along arm  arm. A boy no older than  was, 
shuffling silently along  his gray robe. 

Charon said, "'d wish  luck, mate, but there isn't any down here. Mind , don't forget  
mention my pay raise." 

He counted our golden coins into his pouch, then took up his pole. He warbled something that 
sounded like  Barry Manilow song as he ferried  empty barge back across  river. 

We followed  spirits up  well-worn path. 

 not sure what  was expecting — Pearly Gates, or  big black portcullis, or something. But  
entrance   Underworld looked like  cross between airport security and  Jersey Turnpike. 

There were three separate entrances under one huge black archway that said YOU ARE NOW 
ENTERING EREBUS. Each entrance had  pass-through metal detector with security cameras mounted 
 top. Beyond  were tollbooths manned by black-robed ghouls like Charon. 

The howling of  hungry animal was really loud now, but  couldn't see where  was coming 
from. The three-headed dog, Cerberus, who was supposed  guard Hades 's door, was nowhere  be 
seen. 



The dead queued up   three lines, two marked ATTENDANT ON DUTY, and one marked EZ 
DEATH. The EZ DEATH line was moving right along. The other two were crawling. 

"What do  figure?"  asked Annabeth. 

"The fast line must go straight   Asphodel Fields," she said. "No contest. They don't want  
risk judgment from  court, because  might go against them." 
"There's  court for dead people?" 

"Yeah. Three judges. They switch around who sits   bench. King Minos, Thomas Jefferson, 
Shakespeare — people like that. Sometimes  look at  life and decide that person needs  special 
reward —  Fields of Elysium. Sometimes  decide  punishment. But most people, well,  just 
lived. Nothing special, good or bad. So  go   Asphodel Fields." 

"And do what?" 

Grover said, "Imagine standing   wheat field  Kansas. Forever." 
"Harsh,"  said. 

"Not as harsh as that," Grover muttered. "Look." 

A couple of black-robbed ghouls had pulled aside one spirit and were frisking him at  security 
desk. The face of  dead man looked vaguely familiar. 

"He's that preacher who made  news, remember?" Grover asked. 

"Oh, yeah."  did remember now. We'd seen him  TV  couple of times at  Yancy Academy 
dorm. He was  annoying televangelist from upstate New York who'd raised millions of dollars for 
orphanages and then got caught spending  money  stuff for his mansion, like gold-plated toilet 
seats, and an indoor putt-putt golf course. He'd died   police chase when his "Lamborghini for  
Lord" went off  cliff. 

 said, "What' re  doing  him?" 

"Special punishment from Hades," Grover guessed. "The really bad people get his personal 
attention as soon as  arrive. The Fur —  Kindly Ones will set up an eternal torture for him." 

The thought of  Furies made  shudder.  realized  was  their home territory now. Old Mrs. 
Dodds would be licking her lips with anticipation. 

"But if he's  preacher,"  said, "and he believes   different hell. . . ." 

Grover shrugged. "Who says he's seeing  place  way we're seeing ? Humans see what  
want  see. You're very stubborn — er, persistent, that way." 

We got closer   gates. The howling was so loud now  shook  ground at my feet, but  still 
couldn't figure out where  was coming from. 

Then, about fifty feet  front of us,  green mist shimmered. Standing just where  path split 
into three lanes was an enormous shadowy monster. 

 hadn't seen  before because  was half transparent, like  dead. Until  moved,  blended with 
whatever was behind . Only its eyes and teeth looked solid. And  was staring straight at . 

My jaw hung open. All  could think  say was, "He's  Rottweiler." 

'd always imagined Cerberus as  big black mastiff. But he was obviously  purebred Rottweiler, 
except of course that he was twice  size of  woolly mammoth, mostly invisible, and had three heads. 

The dead walked right up  him— no fear at all. The ATTENDANT ON DUTY lines parted  
either side of him. The EZ DEATH spirits walked right between his front paws and under his belly, 
which  could do without even crouching. 

" starting  see him better,"  muttered. "Why  that?" 



" think . . ." Annabeth moistened her lips. " afraid  because we're getting closer  being 
dead." 

The dog's middle head craned toward us. It sniffed  air and growled. 
"It can smell  living,"  said. 

"But that's okay," Grover said, trembling next  . "Because we have  plan." 
"Right," Annabeth said. 'd never heard her voice sound quite so small. "Apian." 
We moved toward  monster. 

The middle head snarled at us, then barked so loud my eyeballs rattled. 
"Can  understand ?"  asked Grover. 
"Oh yeah," he said. " can understand ." 
"What's  saying?" 

" don't think humans have  four-letter word that translates, exactly." 

 took  big stick out of my backpack —  bedpost 'd broken off Crusty's Safari Deluxe floor 
model.  held  up, and tried  channel happy dog thoughts toward Cerberus — Alpo commercials, cute 
little puppies, fire hydrants.  tried  smile, like  wasn't about  die. 

"Hey, Big Fella,"  called up. " bet  don't play with  much." 

"GROWWWLLLL!" 

"Good boy,"  said weakly. 

 waved  stick. The dog's middle head followed  movement. The other two heads trained their 
eyes  , completely ignoring  spirits.  had Cerberus's undivided attention.  wasn't sure that was 
 good thing. 

"Fetch!"  threw  stick into  gloom,  good solid throw.  heard  go ker-sploosh   River 
Styx. 

Cerberus glared at , unimpressed. His eyes were baleful and cold. 
So much for  plan. 

Cerberus was now making  new kind of growl, deeper down  his three throats. 

"Urn," Grover said. "Percy?" 

"Yeah?" 

" just thought 'd want  know." 
"Yeah?" 

"Cerberus? He's saying we've got ten seconds  pray   god of our choice. After that . . . well . . 
. he's hungry." 

"Wait!" Annabeth said. She started rifling through her pack. 
Uh-oh,  thought. 

"Five seconds," Grover said. "Do we run now?" 

Annabeth produced  red rubber ball  size of  grapefruit. It was labeled WATERLAND, 
DENVER, CO. Before  could stop her, she raised  ball and marched straight up  Cerberus. 

She shouted, "See  ball? You want  ball, Cerberus? Sit!" 
Cerberus looked as stunned as we were. 
All three of his heads cocked sideways. Six nostrils dilated. 
"Sit!" Annabeth called again. 



 was sure that any moment she would become  world's largest Milkbone dog biscuit. 

But instead, Cerberus licked his three sets of lips, shifted  his haunches, and sat, immediately 
crushing  dozen spirits who'd been passing underneath him   EZ DEATH line. The spirits made 
muffled hisses as  dissipated, like  air let out of tires. 

Annabeth said, "Good boy!" 
She threw Cerberus  ball. 

He caught   his middle mouth. It was barely big enough for him  chew, and  other heads 
started snapping at  middle, trying  get  new toy. 

"Drop !" Annabeth ordered. 

Cerberus 's heads stopped fighting and looked at her. The ball was wedged between two of his teeth 
like  tiny piece of gum. He made  loud, scary whimper, then dropped  ball, now slimy and bitten 
nearly  half, at Annabeth 's feet. 

"Good boy." She picked up  ball, ignoring  monster spit all over . 

She turned toward us. "Go now. EZ DEATH line —  faster." 

 said, "But—" 

"Now!" She ordered,   same tone she was using   dog. 
Grover and  inched forward warily. 
Cerberus started  growl. 

"Stay!" Annabeth ordered  monster. "If  want  ball, stay!" 

Cerberus whimpered, but he stayed where he was. 

"What about ?"  asked Annabeth as we passed her. 

" know what  doing, Percy," she muttered. "At least,  pretty sure. . . ." 

Grover and  walked between  monster's legs. 

Please, Annabeth,  prayed. Don't tell him  sit again. 

We made  through. Cerberus wasn't any less scary-looking from  back. 

Annabeth said, "Good dog!" 

She held up  tattered red ball, and probably came   same conclusion  did — if she rewarded 
Cerberus, there 'd be nothing left for another trick. 

She threw  ball anyway. The monster's left mouth immediately snatched  up, only  be attacked 
by  middle head, while  right head moaned  protest. 

While  monster was distracted, Annabeth walked briskly under its belly and joined us at  
metal detector. 

"How did  do that?"  asked her, amazed. 

"Obedience school," she said breathlessly, and  was surprised  see there were tears  her eyes. 
"When  was little, at my dad's house, we had  Doberman. . . ." 

"Never mind that," Grover said, tugging at my shirt. "Come !" 

We were about  bolt through  EZ DEATH line when Cerberus moaned pitifully from all three 
mouths. Annabeth stopped. 

She turned  face  dog, which had done  one-eighty  look at us. 
Cerberus panted expectantly,  tiny red ball  pieces   puddle of drool at its feet. 
"Good boy," Annabeth said, but her voice sounded melancholy and uncertain. 
The monster's heads turned sideways, as if worried about her. 



"'ll bring  another ball soon," Annabeth promised faintly. "Would  like that?" 
The monster whimpered.  didn't need  speak dog  know Cerberus was still waiting for  ball. 
"Good dog. 'll come visit  soon.  —  promise." Annabeth turned  us. "Let's go." 
Grover and  pushed through  metal detector, which immediately screamed and set off flashing 
red lights. "Unauthorized possessions! Magic detected!" 

Cerberus started  bark. 

We burst through  EZ DEATH gate, which started even more alarms blaring, and raced into  
Underworld. 

A few minutes later, we were hiding, out of breath,   rotten trunk of an immense black tree as 
security ghouls scuttled past, yelling for backup from  Furies. 
Grover murmured, "Well, Percy, what have we learned today?" 
"That three-headed dogs prefer red rubber balls over sticks?" 
"No," Grover told . "We've learned that your plans really, really bite!" 

 wasn't sure about that.  thought maybe Annabeth and  had both had  right idea. Even here  
 Underworld, everybody — even monsters — needed  little attention once   while. 

 thought about that as we waited for  ghouls  pass.  pretended not  see Annabeth wipe  tear 
from her cheek as she listened   mournful keening of Cerberus   distance, longing for his new 
friend. 

Imagine  largest concert crowd 've ever seen,  football field packed with  million fans. 

Now imagine  field  million times that big, packed with people, and imagine  electricity has 
gone out, and there  no noise, no light, no beach ball bouncing around over  crowd. Something 
tragic has happened backstage. Whispering masses of people are just milling around   shadows, 
waiting for  concert that will never start. 

If  can picture that,  have  pretty good idea what  Fields of Asphodel looked like. The 
black grass had been trampled by eons of dead feet. A warm, moist wind blew like  breath of  
swamp. Black trees — Grover told   were poplars — grew  clumps here and there. 

The cavern ceiling was so high above us  might've been  bank of storm clouds, except for  
stalactites, which glowed faint gray and looked wickedly pointed.  tried not  imagine 'd fall  us 
at any moment, but dotted around  fields were several that had fallen and impaled themselves   
black grass.  guess  dead didn't have  worry about little hazards like being speared by stalactites 
 size of booster rockets. 

Annabeth, Grover, and  tried  blend into  crowd, keeping an eye out for security ghouls.  
couldn't help looking for familiar faces among  spirits of Asphodel, but  dead are hard  look at. 
Their faces shimmer. They all look slightly angry or confused. They will come up   and speak, but 
their voices sound like chatter, like bats twittering. Once  realize  can't understand them,  
frown and move away. 

The dead aren't scary. They're just sad. 

We crept along, following  line of new arrivals that snaked from  main gates toward  black- 
tented pavilion with  banner that read: 

JUDGMENTS FOR ELYSIUM AND ETERNAL DAMNATION 
Welcome, Newly Deceased! 

Out  back of  tent came two much smaller lines. 

To  left, spirits flanked by security ghouls were marched down  rocky path toward  Fields of 
Punishment, which glowed and smoked   distance,  vast, cracked wasteland with rivers of lava 
and minefields and miles of barbed wire separating  different torture areas. Even from far away,  
could see people being chased by hellhounds, burned at  stake, forced  run naked through cactus 
patches or listen  opera music.  could just make out  tiny hill, with  ant-size figure of Sisyphus 
struggling  move his boulder   top. And  saw worse tortures, too — things  don't want  
describe. 

The line coming from  right side of  judgment pavilion was much better. This one led down 
toward  small valley surrounded by walls —  gated community, which seemed  be  only happy 



part of  Underworld. Beyond  security gate were neighborhoods of beautiful houses from every 
time period  history, Roman villas and medieval castles and Victorian mansions. Silver and gold 
flowers bloomed   lawns. The grass rippled  rainbow colors.  could hear laughter and smell 
barbecue cooking. 

Elysium. 

In  middle of that valley was  glittering blue lake, with three small islands like  vacation resort 
  Bahamas. The Isles of  Blest, for people who had chosen  be reborn three times, and three 
times achieved Elysium. Immediately  knew that's where  wanted  go when  died. 

"That's what  all about," Annabeth said, like she was reading my thoughts. "That's  place for 
heroes." 

But  thought of how few people there were  Elysium, how tiny  was compared   Fields of 
Asphodel or even  Fields of Punishment. So few people did good  their lives. It was depressing. 

We left  judgment pavilion and moved deeper into  Asphodel Fields. It got darker. The colors 
faded from our clothes. The crowds of chattering spirits began  thin. 

After  few miles of walking, we began  hear  familiar screech   distance. Looming   
horizon was  palace of glittering black obsidian. Above  parapets swirled three dark batlike 
creatures:  Furies.  got  feeling  were waiting for us. 

" suppose  too late  turn back," Grover said wistfully. 

"We'll be okay."  tried  sound confident. 

"Maybe we should search some of  other places first," Grover suggested. "Like, Elysium, for 
instance ..." 

"Come , goat boy." Annabeth grabbed his arm. 

Grover yelped. His sneakers sprouted wings and his legs shot forward, pulling him away from 
Annabeth. He landed flat  his back   grass. 

"Grover," Annabeth chided. "Stop messing around." 

"But  didn't—" 

He yelped again. His shoes were flapping like crazy now. They levitated off  ground and started 
dragging him away from us. 

"Maia!" he yelled, but  magic word seemed  have no effect. "Maia, already! Nine-one-one! 
Help!" 

 got over being stunned and made  grab for Grover 's hand, but too late. He was picking up speed, 
skidding downhill like  bobsled. 

We ran after him. 

Annabeth shouted, "Untie  shoes!" 

It was  smart idea, but  guess  not so easy when your shoes are pulling  along feetfirst at full 
speed. Grover tried  sit up, but he couldn't get close   laces. 

We kept after him, trying  keep him  sight as he zipped between  legs of spirits who chattered 
at him  annoyance. 

 was sure Grover was going  barrel straight through  gates of Hades 's palace, but his shoes 
veered sharply   right and dragged him   opposite direction. 

The slope got steeper. Grover picked up speed. Annabeth and  had  sprint  keep up. The cavern 
walls narrowed  either side, and  realized we'd entered some kind of side tunnel. No black grass or 
trees now, just rock underfoot, and  dim light of  stalactites above. 



"Grover!"  yelled, my voice echoing. "Hold   something!" 
"What?" he yelled back. 

He was grabbing at gravel, but there was nothing big enough  slow him down. 

The tunnel got darker and colder. The hairs  my arms bristled. It smelled evil down here. It made 
 think of things  shouldn't even know about — blood spilled  an ancient stone altar,  foul breath 
of  murderer. 

Then  saw what was ahead of us, and  stopped dead  my tracks. 

The tunnel widened into  huge dark cavern, and   middle was  chasm  size of  city block. 

Grover was sliding straight toward  edge. 

"Come , Percy!" Annabeth yelled, tugging at my wrist. 

"But that's—" 

" know!" she shouted. "The place  described  your dream! But Graver's going  fall if we 
don't catch him." She was right, of course. Graver's predicament got  moving again. 

He was yelling, clawing at  ground, but  winged shoes kept dragging him toward  pit, and  
didn't look like we could possibly get  him  time. 
What saved him were his hooves. 

The flying sneakers had always been  loose fit  him, and finally Grover hit  big rock and  left 
shoe came flying off. It sped into  darkness, down into  chasm. The right shoe kept tugging him 
along, but not as fast. Grover was able  slow himself down by grabbing    big rock and using  
like an anchor. 

He was ten feet from  edge of  pit when we caught him and hauled him back up  slope. The 
other winged shoe tugged itself off, circled around us angrily and kicked our heads  protest before 
flying off into  chasm  join its twin. 

We all collapsed, exhausted,   obsidian gravel. My limbs felt like lead. Even my backpack 
seemed heavier, as if somebody had filled  with rocks. 

Grover was scratched up pretty bad. His hands were bleeding. His eyes had gone slit-pupiled, goat 
style,  way  did whenever he was terrified. 

" don't know how . . ." he panted. " didn't . . ." 

"Wait,"  said. "Listen." 

 heard something —  deep whisper   darkness. 

Another few seconds, and Annabeth said, "Percy,  place — " 

"Shh."  stood. 

The sound was getting louder,  muttering, evil voice from far, far below us. Coming from  pit. 
Grover sat up. "Wh — what's that noise?" 

Annabeth heard  too, now.  could see   her eyes. "Tartarus. The entrance  Tartarus." 
 uncapped Anaklusmos. 

The bronze sword expanded, gleaming   darkness, and  evil voice seemed  falter, just for  
moment, before resuming its chant. 

 could almost make out words now, ancient, ancient words, older even than Greek. As if . . . 
"Magic,"  said. 

"We have  get out of here," Annabeth said. 

Together, we dragged Grover  his hooves and started back up  tunnel. My legs wouldn't move 



fast enough. My backpack weighed  down. The voice got louder and angrier behind us, and we broke 
into  run. 

Not  moment too soon. 

A cold blast of wind pulled at our backs, as if  entire pit were inhaling. For  terrifying moment,  
lost ground, my feet slipping   gravel. If we'd been any closer   edge, we would 've been 
sucked . 

We kept struggling forward, and finally reached  top of  tunnel, where  cavern widened out 
into  Fields of Asphodel. The wind died. A wail of outrage echoed from deep   tunnel. 
Something was not happy we'd gotten away. 

"What was that?" Grover panted, when we'd collapsed   relative safety of  black poplar grove. 
"One of Hades 's pets?" 

Annabeth and  looked at each other.  could tell she was nursing an idea, probably  same one 
she'd gotten during  taxi ride  L.A., but she was too scared  share . That was enough  terrify 
. 

 capped my sword, put  pen back  my pocket. "Let's keep going."  looked at Grover. "Can 
 walk?" 

He swallowed. "Yeah, sure.  never liked those shoes, anyway." 

He tried  sound brave about , but he was trembling as badly as Annabeth and  were. Whatever 
was  that pit was nobody's pet. It was unspeakably old and powerful. Even Echidna hadn't given  
that feeling.  was almost relieved  turn my back  that tunnel and head toward  palace of Hades. 

Almost. 

The Furies circled  parapets, high   gloom. The outer walls of  fortress glittered black, 
and  twostory-tall bronze gates stood wide open. 

Up close,  saw that  engravings   gates were scenes of death. Some were from modern 
times — an atomic bomb exploding over  city,  trench filled with gas mask- wearing soldiers,  line of 
African famine victims waiting with empty bowls — but all of them looked as if 'd been etched into 
 bronze thousands of years ago.  wondered if  was looking at prophecies that had come true. 

Inside  courtyard was  strangest garden 'd ever seen. Multicolored mushrooms, poisonous 
shrubs, and weird luminous plants grew without sunlight. Precious jewels made up for  lack of 
flowers, piles of rubies as big as my fist, clumps of raw diamonds. Standing here and there like frozen 
party guests were Medusa's garden statues — petrified children, satyrs, and centaurs — all smiling 
grotesquely. 

In  center of  garden was an orchard of pomegranate trees, their orange blooms neon bright  
 dark. "The garden of Persephone," Annabeth said. "Keep walking." 

 understood why she wanted  move . The tart smell of those pomegranates was almost 
overwhelming.  had  sudden desire  eat them, but then  remembered  story of Persephone. One 
bite of Underworld food, and we would never be able  leave.  pulled Grover away  keep him from 
picking  big juicy one. 

We walked up  steps of  palace, between black columns, through  black marble portico, and 
into  house of Hades. The entry hall had  polished bronze floor, which seemed  boil   
reflected torchlight. There was no ceiling, just  cavern roof, far above.  guess  never had  
worry about rain down here. 

Every side doorway was guarded by  skeleton  military gear. Some wore Greek armor, some 
British redcoat uniforms, some camouflage with tattered American flags   shoulders. They carried 



spears or muskets or M-16s. None of them bothered us, but their hollow eye sockets followed us as we 
walked down  hall, toward  big set of doors at  opposite end. 

Two U.S. Marine skeletons guarded  doors. They grinned down at us, rocket-propelled grenade 
launchers held across their chests. 

"You know," Grover mumbled, " bet Hades doesn't have trouble with door--door salesmen." 
My backpack weighed  ton now.  couldn't figure out why.  wanted  open , check  see if  had 
somehow picked up  stray bowling ball, but  wasn't  time. 

"Well, guys,"  said. " suppose we should . . . knock?" 

A hot wind blew down  corridor, and  doors swung open. The guards stepped aside. 
" guess that means entrez-vous," Annabeth said. 

The room inside looked just like  my dream, except  time  throne of Hades was occupied. 
He was  third god 'd met, but  first who really struck  as godlike. 

He was at least ten feet tall, for one thing, and dressed  black silk robes and  crown of braided 
gold. His skin was albino white, his hair shoulder-length and jet black. He wasn't bulked up like Ares, 
but he radiated power. He lounged  his throne of fused human bones, looking lithe, graceful, and 
dangerous as  panther. 

 immediately felt like he should be giving  orders. He knew more than  did. He should be my 
master. Then  told myself  snap out of . 

Hades's aura was affecting , just as Ares's had. The Lord of  Dead resembled pictures 'd seen 
of Adolph Hitler, or Napoleon, or  terrorist leaders who direct suicide bombers. Hades had  same 
intense eyes,  same kind of mesmerizing, evil charisma. 

"You are brave  come here, Son of Poseidon," he said  an oily voice. "After what  have done 
 , very brave indeed. Or perhaps  are simply very foolish." 

Numbness crept into my joints, tempting   lie down and just take  little nap at Hades's feet. 
Curl up here and sleep forever. 

 fought  feeling and stepped forward.  knew what  had  say. "Lord and Uncle,  come with 
two requests." 

Hades raised an eyebrow. When he sat forward  his throne, shadowy faces appeared   folds of 
his black robes, faces of torment, as if  garment were stitched of trapped souls from  Fields of 
Punishment, trying  get out. The ADHD part of  wondered, off -task, whether  rest of his clothes 
were made  same way. What horrible things would  have  do  your life  get woven into 
Hades's underwear? 

"Only two requests?" Hades said. "Arrogant child. As if  have not already taken enough. Speak, 
then. It amuses  not  strike  dead yet." 

 swallowed. This was going about as well as 'd feared. 

 glanced at  empty, smaller throne next  Hades's. It was shaped like  black flower, gilded with 
gold.  wished Queen Persephone were here.  recalled something   myths about how she could 
calm her husband's moods. But  was summer. Of course, Persephone would be above   world of 
light with her mother,  goddess of agriculture, Demeter. Her visits, not  tilt of  planet, create  
seasons. 

Annabeth cleared her throat. Her finger prodded    back. 

"Lord Hades,"  said. "Look, sir, there can't be  war among  gods. It would be . . . bad." 
"Really bad," Grover added helpfully. 



"Return Zeus's master bolt  ,"  said. "Please, sir. Let  carry   Olympus." 

Hades 's eyes grew dangerously bright. "You dare keep up  pretense, after what  have done?" 

 glanced back at my friends. They looked as confused as  was. 

"Urn . . . Uncle,"  said. "You keep saying 'after what 've done.' What exactly have  done?" 

The throne room shook with  tremor so strong,  probably felt  upstairs  Los Angeles. Debris 
fell from  cavern ceiling. Doors burst open all along  walls, and skeletal warriors marched , 
hundreds of them, from every time period and nation  Western civilization. They lined  perimeter 
of  room, blocking  exits. 

Hades bellowed, "Do  think  want war, godling?" 

 wanted  say, Well, these guys don't look like peace activists. But  thought that might be  
dangerous answer. 

"You are  Lord of  Dead,"  said carefully. "A war would expand your kingdom, right?" 

"A typical thing for my brothers  say! Do  think  need more subjects? Did  not see  
sprawl of  Asphodel Fields?" 

"Well . . ." 

"Have  any idea how much my kingdom has swollen   past century alone, how many 
subdivisions 've had  open?" 

 opened my mouth  respond, but Hades was   roll now. 

"More security ghouls," he moaned. "Traffic problems at  judgment pavilion. Double overtime 
for  staff.  used  be  rich god, Percy Jackson.  control all  precious metals under  earth. But 
my expenses!" 

"Charon wants  pay raise,"  blurted, just remembering  fact. As soon as  said ,  wished  
could sew up my mouth. 

"Don't get  started  Charon!" Hades yelled. "He's been impossible ever since he discovered 
Italian suits! Problems everywhere, and 've got  handle all of them personally. The commute time 
alone from  palace   gates  enough  drive  insane! And  dead just keep arriving. No, 
godling.  need no help getting subjects!  did not ask for  war." 

"But  took Zeus's master bolt." 

"Lies!" More rumbling. Hades rose from his throne, towering   height of  football goalpost. 
"Your father may fool Zeus, boy, but   not so stupid.  see his plan." 

"His plan?" 

"You were  thief   winter solstice," he said. "Your father thought  keep  his little secret. 
He directed  into  throne room  Olympus. You took  master bolt and my helm. Had  not 
sent my Fury  discover  at Yancy Academy, Poseidon might have succeeded  hiding his scheme 
 start  war. But now  have been forced into  open. You will be exposed as Poseidon's thief, and 
 will have my helm back!" 

"But . . ." Annabeth spoke.  could tell her mind was going  million miles an hour. "Lord Hades, 
your helm of darkness  missing, too?" 

"Do not play innocent with , girl. You and  satyr have been helping  hero — coming here  
threaten   Poseidon's name, no doubt —  bring  an ultimatum. Does Poseidon think  can be 
blackmailed into supporting him?" 

"No!"  said. "Poseidon didn't—  didn't—" 

" have said nothing of  helm's disappearance," Hades snarled, "because  had no illusions that 



anyone  Olympus would offer   slightest justice,  slightest help.  can ill afford for word  
get out that my most powerful weapon of fear  missing. So  searched for  myself, and when  was 
clear  were coming    deliver your threat,  did not try  stop ." 
"You didn't try  stop us? But—" 

"Return my helm now, or  will stop death," Hades threatened. "That  my counterproposal.  will 
open  earth and have  dead pour back into  world.  will make your lands  nightmare. And 
, Percy Jackson — your skeleton will lead my army out of Hades." 

The skeletal soldiers all took one step forward, making their weapons ready. 

At that point,  probably should have been terrified. The strange thing was,  felt offended. Nothing 
gets  angrier than being accused of something  didn't do. 've had  lot of experience with that. 

"You're as bad as Zeus,"  said. "You think  stole from ? That's why  sent  Furies after 
?" 

"Of course," Hades said. 
"And  other monsters?" 

Hades curled his lip. " had nothing  do with them.  wanted no quick death for  —  wanted  
brought before  alive so  might face every torture   Fields of Punishment. Why do  think 
 let  enter my kingdom so easily?" 

"Easily?" 

"Return my property!" 

"But  don't have your helm.  came for  master bolt." 

"Which  already possess!" Hades shouted. "You came here with , little fool, thinking  could 
 threaten !" 

"But  didn't!" 

"Open your pack, then." 

A horrible feeling struck . The weight  my backpack, like  bowling ball. It couldn't be. . . . 

 slung  off my shoulder and unzipped . Inside was  two-foot-long metal cylinder, spiked  both 
ends, humming with energy. 

"Percy," Annabeth said. "How — " 

" —  don't know.  don't understand." 

"You heroes are always  same," Hades said. "Your pride makes  foolish, thinking  could 
bring such  weapon before .  did not ask for Zeus's master bolt, but since   here,  will yield  
 .   sure  will make an excellent bargaining tool. And now . . . my helm. Where  ?" 

 was speechless.  had no helm.  had no idea how  master bolt had gotten into my backpack.  
wanted  think Hades was pulling some kind of trick. Hades was  bad guy. But suddenly  world 
turned sideways.  realized 'd been played with. Zeus, Poseidon, and Hades had been set at each other's 
throats by someone else. The master bolt had been   backpack, and 'd gotten  backpack from . . 

"Lord Hades, wait,"  said. "This  all  mistake." 
"A mistake?" Hades roared. 

The skeletons aimed their weapons. From high above, there was  fluttering of leathery wings, and 
 three Furies swooped down  perch   back of their master's throne. The one with Mrs. 
Dodds's face grinned at  eagerly and flicked her whip. 

"There  no mistake," Hades said. " know why  have come —  know  real reason  



brought  bolt. You came  bargain for her." 

Hades loosed  ball of gold fire from his palm. It exploded   steps  front of , and there was 
my mother, frozen   shower of gold, just as she was at  moment when  Minotaur began  
squeeze her  death. 

 couldn't speak.  reached out  touch her, but  light was as hot as  bonfire. 

"Yes," Hades said with satisfaction. " took her.  knew, Percy Jackson, that  would come  
bargain with  eventually. Return my helm, and perhaps  will let her go. She  not dead,  know. 
Not yet. But if  displease , that will change." 

 thought about  pearls  my pocket. Maybe  could get  out of . If  could just get my 
mom free . . . 

"Ah,  pearls," Hades said, and my blood froze. "Yes, my brother and his little tricks. Bring them 
forth, Percy Jackson." 

My hand moved against my will and brought out  pearls. 

"Only three," Hades said. "What  shame. You do realize each only protects  single person. Try  
take your mother, then, little godling. And which of your friends will  leave behind  spend eternity 
with ? Go . Choose. Or give   backpack and accept my terms." 

 looked at Annabeth and Grover. Their faces were grim. 

"We were tricked,"  told them. "Set up." 

"Yes, but why?" Annabeth asked. "And  voice   pit — " 

" don't know yet,"  said. "But  intend  ask." 

"Decide, boy!" Hades yelled. 

"Percy." Grover put his hand  my shoulder. "You can't give him  bolt." 
" know that." 

"Leave  here," he said. "Use  third pearl  your mom." 
"No!" 

"  satyr," Grover said. "We don't have souls like humans do. He can torture  until  die, but 
he won't get  forever. 'll just be reincarnated as  flower or something.   best way." 

"No." Annabeth drew her bronze knife. "You two go . Grover,  have  protect Percy. You 
have  get your searcher's license and start your quest for Pan. Get his mom out of here. 'll cover . 
 plan  go down fighting." 

"No way," Grover said. " staying behind." 

"Think again, goat boy," Annabeth said. 

"Stop , both of !"  felt like my heart was being ripped  two. They had both been with  
through so much.  remembered Grover dive-bombing Medusa   statue garden, and Annabeth 
saving us from Cerberus; we'd survived Hephaestus 's Waterland ride,  St. Louis Arch,  Lotus 
Casino.  had spent thousands of miles worried that 'd be betrayed by  friend, but these friends would 
never do that. They had done nothing but save , over and over, and now  wanted  sacrifice their 
lives for my mom. 

" know what  do,"  said. "Take these." 
 handed them each  pearl. 
Annabeth said, "But, Percy . . ." 

 turned and faced my mother.  desperately wanted  sacrifice myself and use  last pearl  her, 
but  knew what she would say. She would never allow .  had  get  bolt back  Olympus and tell 



Zeus  truth.  had  stop  war. She would never forgive  if  saved her instead.  thought about 
 prophecy made at Half-Blood Hill, what seemed like  million years ago. You will fail  save what 
matters most   end. 

" sorry,"  told her. "'ll be back. 'll find  way." 

The smug look  Hades 's face faded. He said, "Godling . . . ?" 

"'ll find your helm, Uncle,"  told him. "'ll return . Remember about Charon's pay raise." 
"Do not defy  — " 

"And  wouldn't hurt  play with Cerberus once   while. He likes red rubber balls." 
"Percy Jackson,  will not — " 
 shouted, "Now, guys!" 

We smashed  pearls at our feet. For  scary moment, nothing happened. 
Hades yelled, "Destroy them!" 

The army of skeletons rushed forward, swords out, guns clicking  full automatic. The Furies 
lunged, their whips bursting into flame. 

Just as  skeletons opened fire,  pearl fragments at my feet exploded with  burst of green light 
and  gust of fresh sea wind.  was encased   milky white sphere, which was starting  float off  
ground. 

Annabeth and Grover were right behind . Spears and bullets sparked harmlessly off  pearl 
bubbles as we floated up. Hades yelled with such rage,  entire fortress shook and  knew  was not 
going  be  peaceful night  L.A. 

"Look up!" Grover yelled. "We're going  crash!" 

Sure enough, we were racing right toward  stalactites, which  figured would pop our bubbles and 
skewer us. 

"How do  control these things?" Annabeth shouted. 
" don't think  do!"  shouted back. 

We screamed as  bubbles slammed into  ceiling and . . . Darkness. 
Were we dead? 

No,  could still feel  racing sensation. We were going up, right through solid rock as easily as an 
air bubble  water. That was  power of  pearls,  realized — What belongs   sea will always 
return   sea. 

For  few moments,  couldn't see anything outside  smooth walls of my sphere, then my pearl 
broke through   ocean floor. The two other milky spheres, Annabeth and Grover, kept pace with 
 as we soared upward through  water. And — ker-blam! 

We exploded   surface,   middle of  Santa Monica Bay, knocking  surfer off his board 
with an indignant, "Dude!" 

 grabbed Grover and hauled him over   life buoy.  caught Annabeth and dragged her over too. A 
curious shark was circling us,  great white about eleven feet long. 
 said, "Beat ." 

The shark turned and raced away. 

The surfer screamed something about bad mushrooms and paddled away from us as fast as he could. 

Somehow,  knew what time  was: early morning, June 21,  day of  summer solstice. 

In  distance, Los Angeles was  fire, plumes of smoke rising from neighborhoods all over  



city. There had been an earthquake, all right, and  was Hades 's fault. He was probably sending an army 
of  dead after  right now. 

But at  moment,  Underworld wasn't my biggest problem. 

 had  get  shore.  had  get Zeus's thunderbolt back  Olympus. Most of all,  had  have  
serious conversation with  god who'd tricked . 

A Coast Guard boat picked us up, but  were too busy  keep us for long, or  wonder how 
three kids  street clothes had gotten out into  middle of  bay. There was  disaster  mop up. 
Their radios were jammed with distress calls. 

They dropped us off at  Santa Monica Pier with towels around our shoulders and water bottles 
that said 'M A JUNIOR COAST GUARD! and sped off  save more people. 

Our clothes were sopping wet, even mine. When  Coast Guard boat had appeared, 'd silently 
prayed  wouldn't pick  out of  water and find  perfectly dry, which might've raised some 
eyebrows. So 'd willed myself  get soaked. Sure enough, my usual waterproof magic had abandoned 
.  was also barefoot, because 'd given my shoes  Grover. Better  Coast Guard wonder why one 
of us was barefoot than wonder why one of us had hooves. 

After reaching dry land, we stumbled down  beach, watching  city burn against  beautiful 
sunrise.  felt as if 'd just come back from  dead — which  had. My backpack was heavy with Zeus's 
master bolt. My heart was even heavier from seeing my mother. 

" don't believe ," Annabeth said. "We went all that way — " 
"It was  trick,"  said. "A strategy worthy of Athena." 
"Hey," she warned. 
"You get , don't ?" 

She dropped her eyes, her anger fading. "Yeah.  get ." 

"Well,  don't!" Grover complained. "Would somebody — " 

"Percy . . ." Annabeth said. " sorry about your mother.  so sorry. . . ." 

 pretended not  hear her. If  talked about my mother,  was going  start crying like  little kid. 

"The prophecy was right,"  said. "'You shall go west and face  god who has turned.' But  
wasn't Hades. Hades didn't want war among  Big Three. Someone else pulled off  theft. Someone 
stole Zeus's master bolt, and Hades's helm, and framed  because  Poseidon's kid. Poseidon will 
get blamed by both sides. By sundown today, there will be  three-way war. And 'll have caused ." 

Grover shook his head, mystified. "But who would be that sneaky? Who would want war that bad?" 

 stopped  my tracks, looking down  beach. "Gee, let  think." 

There he was, waiting for us,  his black leather duster and his sunglasses, an aluminum baseball 
bat propped  his shoulder. His motorcycle rumbled beside him, its headlight turning  sand red. 

"Hey, kid," Ares said, seeming genuinely pleased  see . "You were supposed  die." 

"You tricked ,"  said. "You stole  helm and  master bolt." 

Ares grinned. "Well, now,  didn't steal them personally. Gods taking each other's symbols of power 
— that's  big no-no. But 're not  only hero   world who can run errands." 
"Who did  use? Clarisse? She was there at  winter solstice." 



The idea seemed  amuse him. "Doesn't matter. The point , kid, 're impeding  war effort. 
See, 've got  die   Underworld. Then Old Seaweed will be mad at Hades for killing . 
Corpse Breath will have Zeus's master bolt, so Zeus'll be mad at him. And Hades  still looking for  

From his pocket he took out  ski cap —  kind bank robbers wear — and placed  between  
handlebars of his bike. Immediately,  cap transformed into an elaborate bronze war helmet. 

"The helm of darkness," Grover gasped. 

"Exactly," Ares said. "Now where was ? Oh yeah, Hades will be mad at both Zeus and Poseidon, 
because he doesn't know who took . Pretty soon, we got  nice little three-way slugfest going." 

"But  your family!" Annabeth protested. 

Ares shrugged. "Best kind of war. Always  bloodiest. Nothing like watching your relatives fight, 
 always say." 

"You gave   backpack  Denver,"  said. "The master bolt was  there  whole time." 

"Yes and no," Ares said. " probably too complicated for your little mortal brain  follow, but  
backpack   master bolt's sheath, just morphed  bit. The bolt  connected  , sort of like that 
sword  got, kid. It always returns  your pocket, right?" 

 wasn't sure how Ares knew about that, but  guess  god of war had  make  his business  
know about weapons. 

"Anyway," Ares continued, " tinkered with  magic  bit, so  bolt would only return   
sheath once  reached  Underworld. You get close  Hades. . . . Bingo,  got mail. If  died 
along  way — no loss.  still had  weapon." 

"But why not just keep  master bolt for yourself ?"  said. "Why send   Hades?" 
Ares got  twitch  his jaw. For  moment,  was almost as if he were listening  another voice, 
deep inside his head. "Why didn't  . . . yeah . . . with that kind of firepower . . ." 

He held  trance for one second . . . two seconds. . . . 
 exchanged nervous looks with Annabeth. 

Ares's face cleared. " didn't want  trouble. Better  have  caught redhanded, holding  
thing." 

"You're lying,"  said. "Sending  bolt   Underworld wasn't your idea, was ?" 

"Of course  was!" Smoke drifted up from his sunglasses, as if  were about  catch fire. 

"You didn't order  theft,"  guessed. "Someone else sent  hero  steal  two items. Then, when 
Zeus sent   hunt him down,  caught  thief. But  didn't turn him over  Zeus. Something 
convinced   let him go. 

You kept  items until another hero could come along and complete  delivery. That thing   
pit  ordering  around." 

"   god of war!  take orders from no one!  don't have dreams!" 

 hesitated. "Who said anything about dreams?" 

Ares looked agitated, but he tried  cover  with  smirk. 

"Let's get back   problem at hand, kid. You're alive.  can't have  taking that bolt  
Olympus. You just might get those hardheaded idiots  listen  . So 've got  kill . Nothing 
personal." 

He snapped his fingers. The sand exploded at his feet and out charged  wild boar, even larger and 
uglier than  one whose head hung above  door of cabin seven at Camp Half-Blood. The beast 



pawed  sand, glaring at  with beady eyes as  lowered its razor-sharp tusks and waited for  
command  kill. 

 stepped into  surf. "Fight  yourself, Ares." 

He laughed, but  heard  little edge  his laughter ... an uneasiness. "You've only got one talent, 
kid, running away. You ran from  Chimera. You ran from  Underworld. You don't have what  
takes." 

"Scared?" 

"In your adolescent dreams." But his sunglasses were starting  melt from  heat of his eyes. "No 
direct involvement. Sorry, kid. You're not at my level." 

Annabeth said, "Percy, run!" 

The giant boar charged. 

But  was done running from monsters. Or Hades, or Ares, or anybody. 

As  boar rushed ,  uncapped my pen and sidestepped. Riptide appeared  my hands.  slashed 
upward. The boar's severed right tusk fell at my feet, while  disoriented animal charged into  sea. 

 shouted, "Wave!" 

Immediately,  wave surged up from nowhere and engulfed  boar, wrapping around  like  
blanket. The beast squealed once  terror. Then  was gone, swallowed by  sea. 

 turned back  Ares. "Are  going  fight  now?"  asked. "Or are  going  hide behind 
another pet pig?" 

Ares's face was purple with rage. "Watch , kid.  could turn  into — " 

"A cockroach,"  said. "Or  tapeworm. Yeah,  sure. That'd save  from getting your godly 
hide whipped, wouldn't ?" 

Flames danced along  top of his glasses. "Oh, man,  are really asking  be smashed into  
grease spot." 

"If  lose, turn  into anything  want. Take  bolt. If  win,  helm and  bolt are mine and 
 have  go away." 

Ares sneered. 

He swung  baseball bat off his shoulder. "How would  like  get smashed: classic or 
modern?" 

 showed him my sword. 

"That's cool, dead boy," he said. "Classic  ." The baseball bat changed into  huge, two-handed 
sword. The hilt was  large silver skull with  ruby  its mouth. 

"Percy," Annabeth said. "Don't do . He's  god." 

"He's  coward,"  told her. 

She swallowed. "Wear , at least. For luck." 

She took off her necklace, with her five years' worth of camp beads and  ring from her father, and 
tied  around my neck. 

"Reconciliation," she said. "Athena and Poseidon together." 

My face felt  little warm, but  managed  smile. "Thanks." 

"And take ," Grover said. He handed   flattened tin can that he'd probably been saving  his 
pocket for  thousand miles. "The satyrs stand behind ." 
"Grover ...  don't know what  say." 



He patted    shoulder.  stuffed  tin can  my back pocket. 

"You all done saying good-bye?" Ares came toward , his black leather duster trailing behind him, 
his sword glinting like fire   sunrise. "'ve been fighting for eternity, kid. My strength  unlimited 
and  cannot die. What have  got?" 

A smaller ego,  thought, but  said nothing.  kept my feet   surf, backing into  water up  
my ankles.  thought back  what Annabeth had said at  Denver diner, so long ago: Ares has 
strength. That's all he has. Even strength has  bow  wisdom sometimes. 

He cleaved downward at my head, but  wasn't there. 

My body thought for . The water seemed  push  into  air and  catapulted over him, 
slashing as  came down. But Ares was just as quick. He twisted, and  strike that should've caught 
him directly   spine was deflected off  end of his sword hilt. 

He grinned. "Not bad, not bad." 

He slashed again and  was forced  jump onto dry land.  tried  sidestep,  get back   water, 
but Ares seemed  know what  wanted. He outmaneuvered , pressing so hard  had  put all my 
concentration  not getting sliced into pieces.  kept backing away from  surf.  couldn't find any 
openings  attack. His sword had  reach several feet longer than Anaklusmos. 

Get  close, Luke had told  once, back  our sword class. When 've got  shorter blade, 
get  close. 

 stepped inside with  thrust, but Ares was waiting for that. He knocked my blade out of my hands 
and kicked    chest.  went airborne — twenty, maybe thirty feet.  would've broken my back if  
hadn't crashed into  soft sand of  dune. 

"Percy!" Annabeth yelled. "Cops!" 

 was seeing double. My chest felt like  had just been hit with  battering ram, but  managed  get 
 my feet. 

 couldn't look away from Ares for fear he'd slice   half, but out of  corner of my eye  saw 
red lights flashing   shoreline boulevard. Car doors were slamming. 

"There, officer!" somebody yelled. "See?" 

A gruff cop voice: "Looks like that kid  TV . . . what  heck . . ." 
"That guy's armed," another cop said. "Call for backup." 
 rolled  one side as Ares's blade slashed  sand. 

 ran for my sword, scooped  up, and launched  swipe at Ares's face, only  find my blade 
deflected again. 

Ares seemed  know exactly what  was going  do  moment before  did . 

 stepped back toward  surf, forcing him  follow. 

"Admit , kid," Ares said. "You got no hope.  just toying with ." 

My senses were working overtime.  now understood what Annabeth had said about ADHD keeping 
 alive  battle.  was wide awake, noticing every little detail. 

 could see where Ares was tensing.  could tell which way he would strike. At  same time,  was 
aware of Annabeth and Grover, thirty feet  my left.  saw  second cop car pulling up, siren wailing. 
Spectators, people who had been wandering  streets because of  earthquake, were starting  
gather. Among  crowd,  thought  saw  few who were walking with  strange, trotting gait of 
disguised satyrs. There were shimmering forms of spirits, too, as if  dead had risen from Hades  
watch  battle.  heard  flap of leathery wings circling somewhere above. 



More sirens. 

 stepped farther into  water, but Ares was fast. The tip of his blade ripped my sleeve and grazed 
my forearm. 

A police voice   megaphone said, "Drop  guns! Set them   ground. Now!" 
Guns? 

 looked at Ares's weapon, and  seemed  be flickering; sometimes  looked like  shotgun, 
sometimes  two-handed sword.  didn't know what  humans were seeing  my hands, but  was 
pretty sure  wouldn't make them like . 

Ares turned  glare at our spectators, which gave   moment  breathe. There were five police 
cars now, and  line of officers crouching behind them, pistols trained  us. 

"This   private matter!" Ares bellowed. "Be gone!" 

He swept his hand, and  wall of red flame rolled across  patrol cars. The police barely had time 
 dive for cover before their vehicles exploded. The crowd behind them scattered, screaming. 

Ares roared with laughter. "Now, little hero. Let's add    barbecue." 

He slashed.  deflected his blade.  got close enough  strike, tried  fake him out with  feint, but 
my blow was knocked aside. The waves were hitting    back now. Ares was up  his thighs, 
wading  after . 

 felt  rhythm of  sea,  waves growing larger as  tide rolled , and suddenly  had an 
idea. Little waves,  thought. And  water behind  seemed  recede.  was holding back  tide by 
force of will, but tension was building, like carbonation behind  cork. 

Ares came toward, grinning confidently.  lowered my blade, as if  were too exhausted  go . 
Wait for ,  told  sea. The pressure now was almost lifting  off my feet. Ares raised his sword.  
released  tide and jumped, rocketing straight over Ares   wave. 

A six-foot wall of water smashed him full   face, leaving him cursing and sputtering with  
mouth full of seaweed.  landed behind him with  splash and feinted toward his head, as 'd done 
before. He turned  time  raise his sword, but  time he was disoriented, he didn't anticipate  
trick.  changed direction, lunged   side, and stabbed Riptide straight down into  water, sending 
 point through  god's heel. 

The roar that followed made Hades 's earthquake look like  minor event. The very sea was blasted 
back from Ares, leaving  wet circle of sand fifty feet wide. 

Ichor,  golden blood of  gods, flowed from  gash   war god's boot. The expression  his 
face was beyond hatred. It was pain, shock, complete disbelief that he'd been wounded. 
He limped toward , muttering ancient Greek curses. 
Something stopped him. 

It was as if  cloud covered  sun, but worse. Light faded. Sound and color drained away. A cold, 
heavy presence passed over  beach, slowing time, dropping  temperature  freezing, and making 
 feel like life was hopeless, fighting was useless. 

The darkness lifted. 
Ares looked stunned. 

Police cars were burning behind us. The crowd of spectators had fled. Annabeth and Grover stood 
  beach,  shock, watching  water flood back around Ares's feet, his glowing golden ichor 
dissipating   tide. 

Ares lowered his sword. 



"You have made an enemy, godling," he told . "You have sealed your fate. Every time  raise 
your blade  battle, every time  hope for success,  will feel my curse. Beware, Perseus Jackson. 
Beware." 

His body began  glow. 

"Percy!" Annabeth shouted. "Don't watch!" 

 turned away as  god Ares revealed his true immortal form.  somehow knew that if  looked,  
would disintegrate into ashes. 

The light died. 

 looked back. Ares was gone. The tide rolled out  reveal Hades 's bronze helm of darkness.  
picked  up and walked toward my friends. 

But before  got there,  heard  flapping of leathery wings. Three evil-looking grandmothers with 
lace hats and fiery whips drifted down from  sky and landed  front of . 

The middle Fury,  one who had been Mrs. Dodds, stepped forward. Her fangs were bared, but for 
once she didn't look threatening. She looked more disappointed, as if she'd been planning  have  
for supper, but had decided  might give her indigestion. 

"We saw  whole thing," she hissed. "So ...  truly was not ?" 

 tossed her  helmet, which she caught  surprise. 

"Return that  Lord Hades,"  said. "Tell him  truth. Tell him  call off  war." 
She hesitated, then ran  forked tongue over her green, leathery lips. "Live well, Percy Jackson. 
Become  true hero. 

Because if  do not, if  ever come into my clutches again . . ." 

She cackled, savoring  idea. Then she and her sisters rose  their bats' wings, fluttered into  
smoke-filled sky, and disappeared. 

 joined Grover and Annabeth, who were staring at   amazement. "Percy . . ." Grover said. 
"That was so incredibly ..." 

"Terrifying," said Annabeth. "Cool!" Grover corrected.  didn't feel terrified.  certainly didn't feel 
cool.  was tired and sore and completely drained of energy. "Did  guys feel that . . . whatever  
was?"  asked. They both nodded uneasily. "Must've been  Furies overhead," Grover said. But  
wasn't so sure. Something had stopped Ares from killing , and whatever could do that was  lot 
stronger than  Furies. 

 looked at Annabeth, and an understanding passed between us.  knew now what was  that pit, 
what had spoken from  entrance of Tartarus. 

 reclaimed my backpack from Grover and looked inside. The master bolt was still there. Such  
small thing  almost cause World War III. 

"We have  get back  New York,"  said. "By tonight." 
"That's impossible," Annabeth said, "unless we — " 

"Fly,"  agreed. She stared at . "Fly, like,  an airplane, which  were warned never  do lest 
Zeus strike  out of  sky, and carrying  weapon that has more destructive power than  nuclear 
bomb?" 

"Yeah,"  said. "Pretty much exactly like that. Come ." 

 funny how humans can wrap their mind around things and fit them into their version of reality. 
Chiron had told  that long ago. As usual,  didn't appreciate his wisdom until much later. 

According   L.A. news,  explosion at  Santa Monica beach had been caused when  crazy 
kidnapper fired  shotgun at  police car. He accidentally hit  gas main that had ruptured during  
earthquake. 

This crazy kidnapper (.k.. Ares) was  same man who had abducted  and two other 
adolescents  New York and brought us across country   ten-day odyssey of terror. 

Poor little Percy Jackson wasn't an international criminal after all. He'd caused  commotion  that 
Greyhound bus  New Jersey trying  get away from his captor (and afterward, witnesses would even 
swear  had seen  leather-clad man   bus — "Why didn't  remember him before?"). The 
crazy man had caused  explosion   St. Louis Arch. After all, no kid could've done that. A 
concerned waitress  Denver had seen  man threatening his abductees outside her diner, gotten  
friend  take  photo, and notified  police. Finally, brave Percy Jackson ( was beginning  like  
kid) had stolen  gun from his captor  Los Angeles and battled him shotgun--rifle   beach. 
Police had arrived just  time. But   spectacular explosion, five police cars had been destroyed and 
 captor had fled. No fatalities had occurred. Percy Jackson and his two friends were safely  police 
custody. 

The reporters fed us  whole story. We just nodded and acted tearful and exhausted (which wasn't 
hard), and played victimized kids for  cameras. 

"All  want,"  said, choking back my tears, "  see my loving stepfather again. Every time  saw 
him  TV, calling   delinquent punk,  knew . . . somehow ... we would be okay. And  know he'll 
want  reward each and every person   beautiful city of Los Angeles with  free major appliance 
from his store. Here's  phone number." The police and reporters were so moved that  passed 
around  hat and raised money for three tickets   next plane  New York. 

 knew there was no choice but  fly.  hoped Zeus would cut  some slack, considering  
circumstances. But  was still hard  force myself  board  flight. 

Takeoff was  nightmare. Every spot of turbulence was scarier than  Greek monster.  didn't 
unclench my hands from  armrests until we touched down safely at La Guardia. The local press was 
waiting for us outside security, but we managed  evade them thanks  Annabeth, who lured them 
away  her invisible Yankees cap, shouting, "They're over by  frozen yogurt! Come !," then 
rejoined us at baggage claim. 

We split up at  taxi stand.  told Annabeth and Grover  get back  Half-Blood Hill and let 
Chiron know what had happened. They protested, and  was hard  let them go after all we'd been 
through, but  knew  had  do  last part of  quest by myself. If things went wrong, if  gods 
didn't believe  ...  wanted Annabeth and Grover  survive  tell Chiron  truth. 

 hopped   taxi and headed into Manhattan. 



Thirty minutes later,  walked into  lobby of  Empire State Building. 

 must have looked like  homeless kid, with my tattered clothes and my scraped-up face.  hadn't 
slept  at least twenty-four hours. 

 went up   guard at  front desk and said, "Six hundredth floor." 

He was reading  huge book with  picture of  wizard   front.  wasn't much into fantasy, but 
 book must've been good, because  guard took  while  look up. "No such floor, kiddo." 

" need an audience with Zeus." 

He gave   vacant smile. "Sorry?" 

"You heard ." 

 was about  decide  guy was just  regular mortal, and 'd better run for  before he called  
straitjacket patrol, when he said, "No appointment, no audience, kiddo. Lord Zeus doesn't see anyone 
unannounced." 

"Oh,  think he'll make an exception."  slipped off my backpack and unzipped  top. 

The guard looked inside at  metal cylinder, not getting what  was for  few seconds. Then his 
face went pale. "That isn't .. ." 

"Yes,  ,"  promised. "You want  take  out and — " 

"No! No!" He scrambled out of his seat, fumbled around his desk for  key card, then handed   
. "Insert    security slot. Make sure nobody else    elevator with ." 

 did as he told . As soon as  elevator doors closed,  slipped  key into  slot. The card 
disappeared and  new button appeared   console,  red one that said 600. 1 pressed  and waited, 
and waited. Muzak played. "Raindrops keep falling  my head. . . ." Finally, ding. The doors slid open. 
 stepped out and almost had  heart attack. 

 was standing   narrow stone walkway   middle of  air. Below  was Manhattan, from 
 height of an airplane. In front of , white marble steps wound up  spine of  cloud, into  sky. 
My eyes followed  stairway  its end, where my brain just could not accept what  saw. 

Look again, my brain said. 

We're looking, my eyes insisted.  really there. 

From  top of  clouds rose  decapitated peak of  mountain, its summit covered with snow. 
Clinging   mountainside were dozens of multileveled palaces —  city of mansions — all with white- 
columned porticos, gilded terraces, and bronze braziers glowing with  thousand fires. 

Roads wound crazily up   peak, where  largest palace gleamed against  snow. 
Precariously perched gardens bloomed with olive trees and rosebushes.  could make out an open-air 
market filled with colorful tents,  stone amphitheater built  one side of  mountain,  hippodrome 
and  coliseum   other. It was an Ancient Greek city, except  wasn't  ruins. It was new, and 
clean, and colorful,  way Athens must've looked twenty-five hundred years ago. 

This place can't be here,  told myself. The tip of  mountain hanging over New York City like  
billion-ton asteroid? How could something like that be anchored above  Empire State Building,  
plain sight of millions of people, and not get noticed? 

But here  was. And here  was. 

My trip through Olympus was  daze.  passed some giggling wood nymphs who threw olives at  
from their garden. Hawkers   market offered  sell  ambrosiaon--stick, and  new shield, and  
genuine glitter-weave replica of  Golden Fleece, as seen  Hephaestus-TV. The nine muses were 
tuning their instruments for  concert   park while  small crowd gathered — satyrs and naiads and  
bunch of good-looking teenagers who might've been minor gods and goddesses. Nobody seemed 



worried about an impending civil war. In fact, everybody seemed   festive mood. Several of them 
turned  watch  pass, and whispered  themselves. 

 climbed  main road, toward  big palace at  peak. It was  reverse copy of  palace   
Underworld. 

There, everything had been black and bronze. Here, everything glittered white and silver. 

 realized Hades must've built his palace  resemble  one. He wasn't welcomed  Olympus 
except   winter solstice, so he'd built his own Olympus underground. Despite my bad experience 
with him,  felt  little sorry for  guy. To be banished from  place seemed really unfair. It would 
make anybody bitter. 

Steps led up   central courtyard. Past that,  throne room. 

Room really isn't  right word. The place made Grand Central Station look like  broom closet. 
Massive columns rose   domed ceiling, which was gilded with moving constellations. 

Twelve thrones, built for beings  size of Hades, were arranged  an inverted U, just like  
cabins at Camp Half-Blood. An enormous fire crackled   central hearth pit. The thrones were 
empty except for two at  end:  head throne   right, and  one  its immediate left.  didn't 
have  be told who  two gods were that were sitting there, waiting for   approach.  came 
toward them, my legs trembling. 

The gods were  giant human form, as Hades had been, but  could barely look at them without 
feeling  tingle, as if my body were starting  burn. Zeus,  Lord of  Gods, wore  dark blue 
pinstriped suit. He sat   simple throne of solid platinum. He had  well-trimmed beard, marbled gray 
and black like  storm cloud. His face was proud and handsome and grim, his eyes rainy gray. 

As  got nearer  him,  air crackled and smelled of ozone. 

The god sitting next  him was his brother, without  doubt, but he was dressed very differently. He 
reminded  of  beachcomber from Key West. He wore leather sandals, khaki Bermuda shorts, and  
Tommy Bahama shirt with coconuts and parrots all over . His skin was deeply tanned, his hands 
scarred like an old-time fisherman's. His hair was black, like mine. His face had that same brooding 
look that had always gotten  branded  rebel. But his eyes, sea-green like mine, were surrounded by 
sun-crinkles that told  he smiled  lot, too. 

His throne was  deep-sea fisherman's chair. It was  simple swiveling kind, with  black leather 
seat and  built- holster for  fishing pole. Instead of  pole,  holster held  bronze trident, 
flickering with green light around  tips. 

The gods weren't moving or speaking, but there was tension   air, as if 'd just finished an 
argument. 

 approached  fisherman's throne and knelt at his feet. "Father."  dared not look up. My heart 
was racing.  could feel  energy emanating from  two gods. If  said  wrong thing,  had no 
doubt  could blast  into dust. 

To my left, Zeus spoke. "Should  not address  master of  house first, boy?" 

 kept my head down, and waited. 

"Peace, brother," Poseidon finally said. His voice stirred my oldest memories: that warm glow  
remembered as  baby,  sensation of  god's hand  my forehead. "The boy defers  his father. 
This  only right." 

"You still claim him then?" Zeus asked, menacingly. "You claim  child whom  sired against 
our sacred oath?" 

" have admitted my wrongdoing," Poseidon said. "Now  would hear him speak." 



Wrongdoing. 

A lump welled up  my throat. Was that all  was? A wrongdoing? The result of  god's mistake? 

" have spared him once already," Zeus grumbled. "Daring  fly through my domain . . . pah!  
should have blasted him out of  sky for his impudence." 

"And risk destroying your own master bolt?" Poseidon asked calmly. "Let us hear him out, brother." 

Zeus grumbled some more. " shall listen," he decided. "Then  shall make up my mind whether or 
not  cast  boy down from Olympus." 

"Perseus," Poseidon said. "Look at ." 

 did, and  wasn't sure what  saw  his face. There was no clear sign of love or approval. Nothing 
 encourage . It was like looking at  ocean: some days,  could tell what mood  was . Most 
days, though,  was unreadable, mysterious. 

 got  feeling Poseidon really didn't know what  think of . He didn't know whether he was 
happy  have  as  son or not. In  strange way,  was glad that Poseidon was so distant. If he'd tried 
 apologize, or told  he loved , or even smiled,  would've felt fake. Like  human dad, making 
some lame excuse for not being around.  could live with that. After all,  wasn't sure about him yet, 
either. 

"Address Lord Zeus, boy," Poseidon told . "Tell him your story." 

So  told Zeus everything, just as  had happened.  took out  metal cylinder, which began 
sparking   Sky God's presence, and laid  at his feet. 

There was  long silence, broken only by  crackle of  hearth fire. 

Zeus opened his palm. The lightning bolt flew into . As he closed his fist,  metallic points flared 
with electricity, until he was holding what looked more like  classic thunderbolt,  twenty-foot 
javelin of arcing, hissing energy that made  hairs  my scalp rise. 

" sense  boy tells  truth," Zeus muttered. "But that Ares would do such  thing ...   most 
unlike him." 

"He  proud and impulsive," Poseidon said. "It runs   family." 
"Lord?"  asked. 
They both said, "Yes?" 

"Ares didn't act alone. Someone else — something else — came up with  idea." 

 described my dreams, and  feeling 'd had   beach, that momentary breath of evil that had 
seemed  stop  world, and made Ares back off from killing . 

"In  dreams,"  said, " voice told   bring  bolt   Underworld. Ares hinted that he'd 
been having dreams, too.  think he was being used, just as  was,  start  war." 
"You are accusing Hades, after all?" Zeus asked. 

"No,"  said. " mean, Lord Zeus, 've been   presence of Hades. This feeling   beach was 
different. It was  same thing  felt when  got close  that pit. That was  entrance  Tartarus, 
wasn't ? Something powerful and evil  stirring down there . . . something even older than  gods." 

Poseidon and Zeus looked at each other. They had  quick, intense discussion  Ancient Greek.  
only caught one word. Father. 

Poseidon made some kind of suggestion, but Zeus cut him off. Poseidon tried  argue. Zeus held up 
his hand angrily. "We will speak of  no more," Zeus said. " must go personally  purify  
thunderbolt   waters of Lemnos,  remove  human taint from its metal." 

He rose and looked at . His expression softened just  fraction of  degree. "You have done   



service, boy. Few heroes could have accomplished as much." 

" had help, sir,"  said. "Grover Underwood and Annabeth Chase — " 

"To show  my thanks,  shall spare your life.  do not trust , Perseus Jackson.  do not like 
what your arrival means for  future of Olympus. But for  sake of peace   family,  shall let 
 live." 

"Urn . . . thank , sir." 

"Do not presume  fly again. Do not let  find  here when  return. Otherwise  shall taste 
 bolt. And  shall be your last sensation." 

Thunder shook  palace. With  blinding flash of lightning, Zeus was gone. 

 was alone   throne room with my father. 

"Your uncle," Poseidon sighed, "has always had  flair for dramatic exits.  think he would've done 
well as  god of theater." 

An uncomfortable silence. 

"Sir,"  said, "what was  that pit?" 

Poseidon regarded . "Have  not guessed?" 

"Kronos,"  said. "The king of  Titans." 

Even   throne room of Olympus, far away from Tartarus,  name Kronos darkened  room, 
made  hearth fire seem not quite so warm  my back. 

Poseidon gripped his trident. "In  First War, Percy, Zeus cut our father Kronos into  thousand 
pieces, just as Kronos had done  his own father, Ouranos. Zeus cast Kronos's remains into  darkest 
pit of Tartarus. The Titan army was scattered, their mountain fortress  Etna destroyed, their monstrous 
allies driven   farthest corners of  earth. And yet Titans cannot die, any more than we gods can. 
Whatever  left of Kronos  still alive  some hideous way, still conscious  his eternal pain, still 
hungering for power." 

"He's healing,"  said. "He's coming back." 

Poseidon shook his head. "From time  time, over  eons, Kronos has stirred. He enters men's 
nightmares and breathes evil thoughts. He wakens restless monsters from  depths. But  suggest he 
could rise from  pit  another thing." 

"That's what he intends, Father. That's what he said." 

Poseidon was silent for  long time. 

"Lord Zeus has closed discussion   matter. He will not allow talk of Kronos. You have 
completed your quest, child. That  all  need  do." 

"But — "  stopped myself. Arguing would do no good. It would very possibly anger  only god 
who  had  my side. "As ... as  wish, Father." 

A faint smile played  his lips. "Obedience does not come naturally  , does ?" 

"No . . . sir." 

" must take some blame for that,  suppose. The sea does not like  be restrained." He rose  his 
full height and took up his trident. Then he shimmered and became  size of  regular man, standing 
directly  front of . "You must go, child. But first, know that your mother has returned." 

 stared at him, completely stunned. "My mother?" 

"You will find her at home. Hades sent her when  recovered his helm. Even  Lord of Death 
pays his debts." 

My heart was pounding.  couldn't believe . "Do  . . . would  . . ." 



 wanted  ask if Poseidon would come with   see her, but then  realized that was ridiculous.  
imagined loading  God of  Sea into  taxi and taking him   Upper East Side. If he'd wanted  
see my mom all these years, he would have. And there was Smelly Gabe  think about. 

Poseidon's eyes took   little sadness. "When  return home, Percy,  must make an 
important choice. You will find  package waiting  your room." 

"A package?" 

"You will understand when  see . No one can choose your path, Percy. You must decide." 
 nodded, though  didn't know what he meant. 

"Your mother   queen among women," Poseidon said wistfully. " had not met such  mortal 
woman   thousand years. Still ...   sorry  were born, child.  have brought   hero's fate, 
and  hero's fate  never happy. It  never anything but tragic." 

 tried not  feel hurt. Here was my own dad, telling  he was sorry 'd been born. " don't mind, 
Father." 

"Not yet, perhaps," he said. "Not yet. But  was an unforgivable mistake  my part." 
"'ll leave  then."  bowed awkwardly. " —  won't bother  again." 
 was five steps away when he called, "Perseus." 
 turned. 

There was  different light  his eyes,  fiery kind of pride. "You did well, Perseus. Do not 
misunderstand . Whatever else  do, know that  are mine. You are  true son of  Sea God." 

As  walked back through  city of  gods, conversations stopped. The muses paused their 
concert. People and satyrs and naiads all turned toward , their faces filled with respect and gratitude, 
and as  passed,  knelt, as if  were some kind of hero. 

* * * 

Fifteen minutes later, still   trance,  was back   streets of Manhattan. 

 caught  taxi  my mom's apartment, rang  doorbell, and there she was — my beautiful mother, 
smelling of peppermint and licorice,  weariness and worry evaporating from her face as soon as she 
saw . 

"Percy! Oh, thank goodness. Oh, my baby." 

She crushed  air right out of . We stood   hallway as she cried and ran her hands through 
my hair. 

'll admit  — my eyes were  little misty, too.  was shaking,  was so relieved  see her. 

She told  she'd just appeared at  apartment that morning, scaring Gabe half out of his wits. 
She didn't remember anything since  Minotaur, and couldn't believe  when Gabe told her  was  
wanted criminal, traveling across  country, blowing up national monuments. She'd been going out of 
her mind with worry all day because she hadn't heard  news. Gabe had forced her  go into work, 
saying she had  month's salary  make up and she'd better get started. 

 swallowed back my anger and told her my own story.  tried  make  sound less scary than  had 
been, but that wasn't easy.  was just getting   fight with Ares when Gabe's voice interrupted from 
 living room. "Hey, Sally! That meat loaf done yet or what?" 

She closed her eyes. "He isn't going  be happy  see , Percy. The store got half  million 
phone calls today from Los Angeles . . . something about free appliances." 

"Oh, yeah. About that . . ." 

She managed  weak smile. "Just don't make him angrier, all right? Come ." 



In  month 'd been gone,  apartment had turned into Gabeland. Garbage was ankle deep   
carpet. The sofa had been reupholstered  beer cans. Dirty socks and underwear hung off  
lampshades. 

Gabe and three of his big goony friends were playing poker at  table. 

When Gabe saw , his cigar dropped out of his mouth. His face got redder than lava. "You got 
nerve coming here,  little punk.  thought  police — " 

"He's not  fugitive after all," my mom interjected. "Isn't that wonderful, Gabe?" 

Gabe looked back and forth between us. He didn't seem  think my homecoming was so wonderful. 

"Bad enough  had  give back your life insurance money, Sally," he growled. "Get   phone. 
'll call  cops." 

"Gabe, no!" 

He raised his eyebrows. "Did  just say 'no' ? You think  gonna put up with  punk again?  
can still press charges against him for ruining my Camaro." 

"But—" 

He raised his hand, and my mother flinched. 

For  first time,  realized something. Gabe had hit my mother.  didn't know when, or how much. 
But  was sure he'd done . Maybe  had been going  for years, when  wasn't around. 

A balloon of anger started expanding  my chest.  came toward Gabe, instinctively taking my pen 
out of my pocket. 

He just laughed. "What, punk? You gonna write  ? You touch , and  are going  jail 
forever,  understand?" 

"Hey, Gabe," his friend Eddie interrupted. "He's just  kid." 

Gabe looked at him resentfully and mimicked   falsetto voice: "Just  kid. " 

His other friends laughed like idiots. 

"'ll be nice  , punk." Gabe showed  his tobacco-stained teeth. "'ll give  five minutes  
get your stuff and clear out. After that,  call  police." 

"Gabe!" my mother pleaded. 

"He ran away," Gabe told her. "Let him stay gone." 

 was itching  uncap Riptide, but even if  did,  blade wouldn't hurt humans. And Gabe, by  
loosest definition, was human. 

My mother took my arm. "Please, Percy. Come . We'll go  your room." 

 let her pull  away, my hands still trembling with rage. 

My room had been completely filled with Gabe's junk. There were stacks of used car batteries,  
rotting bouquet of sympathy flowers with  card from somebody who'd seen his Barbara Walters 
interview. 

"Gabe  just upset, honey," my mother told . "'ll talk  him later.  sure  will work out." 
"Mom, 'll never work out. Not as long as Gabe's here." 

She wrung her hands nervously. " can . . . 'll take   work with  for  rest of  summer. 
In  fall, maybe there's another boarding school — " 

"Mom." 

She lowered her eyes. " trying, Percy.  just ...  need some time." 

A package appeared  my bed. At least,  could've sworn  hadn't been there  moment before. 



It was  battered cardboard box about  right size  fit  basketball. The address   mailing 
slip was  my own handwriting: 

The Gods 
Mount Olympus 
600th Floor, 
Empire State Building 
New York, NY 

With best wishes, 
PERCY JACKSON 

Over  top  black marker,   man's clear, bold print, was  address of our apartment, and  
words: RETURN TO SENDER. 

Suddenly  understood what Poseidon had told   Olympus. 
A package. A decision. 

Whatever else  do, know that  are mine. You are  true son of  Sea God. 
 looked at my mother. "Mom, do  want Gabe gone?" 
"Percy,  isn't that simple.  — " 

"Mom, just tell . That jerk has been hitting . Do  want him gone or not?" 

She hesitated, then nodded almost imperceptibly. "Yes, Percy.  do. And  trying  get up my 
courage  tell him. But  can't do  for . You can't solve my problems." 

 looked at  box. 

 could solve her problem.  wanted  slice that package open, plop    poker table, and take 
out what was inside.  could start my very own statue garden, right there   living room. 
That's what  Greek hero would do   stories,  thought. That's what Gabe deserves. 
But  hero's story always ended  tragedy. Poseidon had told  that. 

 remembered  Underworld.  thought about Gabe's spirit drifting forever   Fields of 
Asphodel, or condemned  some hideous torture behind  barbed wire of  Fields of Punishment — 
an eternal poker game, sitting up  his waist  boiling oil listening  opera music. Did  have  right 
 send someone there? Even Gabe? 

A month ago,  wouldn't have hesitated. Now . . . 

" can do ,"  told my mom. "One look inside  box, and he'll never bother  again." 

She glanced at  package, and seemed  understand immediately. "No, Percy," she said, stepping 
away. "You can't." 

"Poseidon called   queen,"  told her. "He said he hadn't met  woman like    thousand 
years." 

Her cheeks flushed. "Percy — " 

"You deserve better than , Mom. You should go  college, get your degree. You can write your 
novel, meet  nice guy maybe, live   nice house. You don't need  protect  anymore by staying 
with Gabe. Let  get rid of him." 

She wiped  tear off her cheek. "You sound so much like your father," she said. "He offered  stop 
 tide for  once. He offered  build   palace at  bottom of  sea. He thought he could solve 
all my problems with  wave of his hand." 



"What's wrong with that?" 

Her multicolored eyes seemed  search inside . " think  know, Percy.  think 're enough 
like   understand. If my life  going  mean anything,  have  live  myself.  can't let  god take 
care of  ... or my son.  have  . . . find  courage  my own. Your quest has reminded  of 
that." 

We listened   sound of poker chips and swearing, ESPN from  living room television. 

"'ll leave  box,"  said. "If he threatens  . . ." 

She looked pale, but she nodded. "Where will  go, Percy?" 

"Half-Blood Hill." 

"For  summer ... or forever?" 

" guess that depends." 

We locked eyes, and  sensed that we had an agreement. 
We would see how things stood at  end of  summer. 
She kissed my forehead. "You'll be  hero, Percy. You'll be  greatest of all." 
 took one last look around my bedroom.  had  feeling 'd never see  again. Then  walked with 
my mother   front door. 

"Leaving so soon, punk?" Gabe called after . "Good riddance." 

 had one last twinge of doubt. How could  turn down  perfect chance  take revenge  him?  
was leaving here without saving my mother. 

"Hey, Sally," he yelled. "What about that meat loaf, huh?" 

A steely look of anger flared  my mother's eyes, and  thought, just maybe,  was leaving her  
good hands after all. Her own. 

"The meat loaf  coming right up, dear," she told Gabe. "Meat loaf surprise." 

She looked at , and winked. 

The last thing  saw as  door swung closed was my mother staring at Gabe, as if she were 
contemplating how he would look as  garden statue. 

We were  first heroes  return alive  Half-Blood Hill since Luke, so of course everybody 
treated us as if we'd won some reality-TV contest. According  camp tradition, we wore laurel wreaths 
  big feast prepared  our honor, then led  procession down   bonfire, where we got  burn  
burial shrouds our cabins had made for us  our absence. 

Annabeth's shroud was so beautiful — gray silk with embroidered owls —  told her  seemed  
shame not  bury her  . She punched  and told   shut up. 

Being  son of Poseidon,  didn't have any cabin mates, so  Ares cabin had volunteered  make 
my shroud. They'd taken an old bedsheet and painted smiley faces with X'ed-out eyes around  
border, and  word LOSER painted really big   middle. 

It was fun  burn. 

As Apollo's cabin led  sing-along and passed out s' mores,  was surrounded by my old Hermes 
cabinmates, Annabeth's friends from Athena, and Graver's satyr buddies, who were admiring  brand- 
new searcher's license he'd received from  Council of Cloven Elders. The council had called 
Graver's performance   quest "Brave   point of indigestion. Horns-and-whiskers above 
anything we have seen   past." 

The only ones not   party mood were Clarisse and her cabinmates, whose poisonous looks told 
 'd never forgive  for disgracing their dad. 

That was okay with . 

Even Dionysus's welcome-home speech wasn't enough  dampen my spirits. "Yes, yes, so  little 
brat didn't get himself killed and now he'll have an even bigger head. Well, huzzah for that. In other 
announcements, there will be no canoe races  Saturday. . . ." 

 moved back into cabin three, but  didn't feel so lonely anymore.  had my friends  train with 
during  day. At night,  lay awake and listened   sea, knowing my father was out there. Maybe 
he wasn't quite sure about  yet, maybe he hadn't even wanted  born, but he was watching. And so 
far, he was proud of what 'd done. 

As for my mother, she had  chance at  new life. Her letter arrived  week after  got back  camp. 
She told  Gabe had left mysteriously — disappeared off  face of  planet,  fact. She'd reported 
him missing   police, but she had  funny feeling  would never find him. 

On  completely unrelated subject, she'd sold her first life-size concrete sculpture, entitled The 
Poker Player,   collector, through an art gallery  Soho. She'd gotten so much money for , she'd 
put  deposit down   new apartment and made  payment  her first semester's tuition at NYU. The 
Soho gallery was clamoring for more of her work, which  called " huge step forward  super-ugly 
neorealism." 

But don't worry, my mom wrote.  done with sculpture. 've disposed of that box of tools  left 
.  time for   turn  writing. 



At  bottom, she wrote  P.S.: Percy, 've found  good private school here   city. 've put  
deposit down  hold   spot,  case  want  enroll for seventh grade. You could live at home. 
But if  want  go year-round atHalf-Blood Hill, 'll understand. 

 folded  note carefully and set   my bedside table. Every night before  went  sleep,  read  
again, and  tried  decide how  answer her. 

On  Fourth of July,  whole camp gathered at  beach for  fireworks display by cabin nine. 
Being Hephaestus's kids,  weren't going  settle for  few lame red-white-and-blue explosions. 
They'd anchored  barge offshore and loaded  with rockets  size of Patriot missiles. According  
Annabeth, who'd seen  show before,  blasts would be sequenced so tightly 'd look like frames 
of animation across  sky. The finale was supposed  be  couple of hundred-foot-tall Spartan 
warriors who would crackle  life above  ocean, fight  battle, then explode into  million colors. 

As Annabeth and  were spreading  picnic blanket, Grover showed up  tell us good-bye. He was 
dressed  his usual jeans and T-shirt and sneakers, but   last few weeks he'd started  look older, 
almost high-school age. His goatee had gotten thicker. He'd put  weight. His horns had grown at least 
an inch, so he now had  wear his rasta cap all  time  pass as human. 

" off," he said. " just came  say . . . well,  know." 

 tried  feel happy for him. After all,  wasn't every day  satyr got permission  go look for  
great god Pan. But  was hard saying good-bye. 'd only known Grover  year, yet he was my oldest 
friend. 

Annabeth gave him  hug. She told him  keep his fake feet . 
 asked him where he was going  search first. 

"Kind of  secret," he said, looking embarrassed. " wish  could come with , guys, but 
humans and Pan ..." 

"We understand," Annabeth said. "You got enough tin cans for  trip?" 

"Yeah." 

"And  remembered your reed pipes?" 

"Jeez, Annabeth," he grumbled. "You're like an old mama goat." 

But he didn't really sound annoyed. 

He gripped his walking stick and slung  backpack over his shoulder. He looked like any hitchhiker 
 might see  an American highway — nothing like  little runty boy  used  defend from bullies 
at Yancy Academy. 

"Well," he said, "wish  luck." 

He gave Annabeth another hug. He clapped    shoulder, then headed back through  
dunes. 

Fireworks exploded  life overhead: Hercules killing  Nemean lion, Artemis chasing  boar, 
George Washington (who, by  way, was  son of Athena) crossing  Delaware. 

"Hey, Grover,"  called. 

He turned at  edge of  woods. 

"Wherever 're going —  hope  make good enchiladas." 
Grover grinned, and then he was gone,  trees closing around him. 
"We'll see him again," Annabeth said. 

 tried  believe . The fact that no searcher had ever come back  two thousand years . . . well,  
decided not  think about that. Grover would be  first. He had  be. 



July passed. 

 spent my days devising new strategies for capture--flag and making alliances with  other 
cabins  keep  banner out of Ares's hands.  got   top of  climbing wall for  first time 
without getting scorched by lava. 

From time  time, 'd walk past  Big House, glance up at  attic windows, and think about  
Oracle.  tried  convince myself that its prophecy had come  completion. 
You shall go west, and face  god who has turned. 

Been there, done that — even though  traitor god had turned out  be Ares rather than Hades. 
You shall find what was stolen, and see  safe returned. 

Check. One master bolt delivered. One helm of darkness back  Hades 's oily head. 
You shall be betrayed by one who calls   friend. 

This line still bothered . Ares had pretended  be my friend, then betrayed . That must be 
what  Oracle meant. . . . 

And  shall fail  save what matters most,   end. 

 had failed  save my mom, but only because 'd let her save herself, and  knew that was  right 
thing. 

So why was  still uneasy? 

The last night of  summer session came all too quickly. 

The campers had one last meal together. We burned part of our dinner for  gods. At  bonfire, 
 senior counselors awarded  end-of -summer beads. 

 got my own leather necklace, and when  saw  bead for my first summer,  was glad  firelight 
covered my blushing. The design was pitch black, with  sea-green trident shimmering   center. 

"The choice was unanimous," Luke announced. "This bead commemorates  first Son of  Sea 
God at  camp, and  quest he undertook into  darkest part of  Underworld  stop  war!" 

The entire camp got  their feet and cheered. Even Ares's cabin felt obliged  stand. Athena's 
cabin steered Annabeth   front so she could share   applause. 

 not sure 'd ever felt as happy or sad as  did at that moment. 'd finally found  family, people 
who cared about  and thought 'd done something right. And   morning, most of them would be 
leaving for  year. 

* * * 

The next morning,  found  form letter  my bedside table.  knew Dionysus must've filled  out, 
because he stubbornly insisted  getting my name wrong: 



Dear Peter Johnson . 

If  intend  stay at Camp Half-Blood year-round,  must inform  Big House by 
noon today. If  do not announce your intentions, we will assume  have vacated your 
cabin or died  horrible death. Cleaning harpies will begin work at sundown. They will be 
authorized  eat any unregistered campers. All personal articles left behind will be 
incinerated   lava pit. 

Have  nice day! 
Mr. D (Dionysus) 

Camp Director, Olympian Council #12 



That's another thing about ADHD. Deadlines just aren't real   until  staring one   face. 
Summer was over, and  still hadn't answered my mother, or  camp, about whether 'd be staying. 
Now  had only  few hours  decide. 

The decision should have been easy.  mean, nine months of hero training or nine months of sitting 
  classroom — duh. 

But there was my mom  consider. For  first time,  had  chance  live with her for  whole 
year, without Gabe.  had  chance be at home and knock around  city  my free time.  remembered 
what Annabeth had said so long ago  our quest: The real world  where  monsters are. That's 
where  learn whether 're any good or not. 

 thought about  fate of Thalia, daughter of Zeus.  wondered how many monsters would attack 
 if  left Half-Blood Hill. If  stayed  one place for  whole school year, without Chiron or my 
friends around  help , would my mother and  even survive until  next summer? That was 
assuming  spelling tests and five-paragraph essays didn't kill .  decided 'd go down   arena 
and do some sword practice. Maybe that would clear my head. 

The campgrounds were mostly deserted, shimmering   August heat. All  campers were  
their cabins packing up, or running around with brooms and mops, getting ready for final inspection. 
Argus was helping some of  Aphrodite kids haul their Gucci suitcases and makeup kits over  hill, 
where  camp's shuttle bus would be waiting  take them   airport. 

Don't think about leaving yet,  told myself. Just train. 

 got   sword-fighters arena and found that Luke had had  same idea. His gym bag was 
plopped at  edge of  stage. He was working solo, whaling  battle dummies with  sword 'd 
never seen before. It must've been  regular steel blade, because he was slashing  dummies' heads 
right off, stabbing through their straw-stuffed guts. His orange counselor's shirt was dripping with 
sweat. His expression was so intense, his life might've really been  danger.  watched, fascinated, as 
he disemboweled  whole row of dummies, hacking off limbs and basically reducing them   pile of 
straw and armor. 

They were only dummies, but  still couldn't help being awed by Luke's skill. The guy was an 
incredible fighter. It made  wonder, again, how he possibly could 've failed at his quest. 

Finally, he saw , and stopped mid-swing. "Percy." 

"Um, sorry,"  said, embarrassed. " just — " 

" okay," he said, lowering his sword. "Just doing some last-minute practice." 
"Those dummies won't be bothering anybody anymore." 
Luke shrugged. "We build new ones every summer." 

Now that his sword wasn't swirling around,  could see something odd about . The blade was two 
different types of metal — one edge bronze,  other steel. 

Luke noticed  looking at . "Oh, ? New toy. This  Backbiter." 
"Backbiter?" 

Luke turned  blade   light so  glinted wickedly. "One side  celestial bronze. The other  
tempered steel. Works  mortals and immortals both." 

 thought about what Chiron had told  when  started my quest — that  hero should never harm 
mortals unless absolutely necessary. 

" didn't know  could make weapons like that." 
"They probably can't," Luke agreed. " one of  kind." 



He gave   tiny smile, then slid  sword into its scabbard. "Listen,  was going  come looking 
for . 

What do  say we go down   woods one last time, look for something  fight?" 

 don't know why  hesitated.  should've felt relieved that Luke was being so friendly. Ever since 
'd gotten back from  quest, he'd been acting  little distant.  was afraid he might resent  for all 
 attention 'd gotten. 

"You think   good idea?"  asked. " mean — " 

"Aw, come ." He rummaged  his gym bag and pulled out  six-pack of Cokes. "Drinks are  
." 

 stared at  Cokes, wondering where  heck he'd gotten them. There were no regular mortal 
sodas at  camp store. No way  smuggle them  unless  talked   satyr, maybe. 

Of course,  magic dinner goblets would fill with anything  want, but  just didn't taste  
same as  real Coke, straight out of  can. 
Sugar and caffeine. My willpower crumbled. 
"Sure,"  decided. "Why not?" 

We walked down   woods and kicked around for some kind of monster  fight, but  was too 
hot. All  monsters with any sense must've been taking siestas  their nice cool caves. 

We found  shady spot by  creek where 'd broken Clarisse's spear during my first capture  
flag game. We sat   big rock, drank our Cokes, and watched  sunlight   woods. 
After  while Luke said, "You miss being   quest?" 
"With monsters attacking  every three feet? Are  kidding?" 
Luke raised an eyebrow. 
"Yeah,  miss ,"  admitted. "You?" 
A shadow passed over his face. 

 was used  hearing from  girls how good-looking Luke was, but at  moment, he looked 
weary, and angry, and not at all handsome. His blond hair was gray   sunlight. The scar  his face 
looked deeper than usual.  could imagine him as an old man. 

"'ve lived at Half-Blood Hill year-round since  was fourteen," he told . "Ever since Thalia . . . 
well,  know.  trained, and trained, and trained.  never got  be  normal teenager, out there   
real world. Then  threw  one quest, and when  came back,  was like, 'Okay, ride's over. Have  
nice life.'" 

He crumpled his Coke can and threw into  creek, which really shocked . One of  first things 
 learn at Camp Half-Blood : Don't litter. You'll hear from  nymphs and  naiads. They'll get 
even. You'll crawl into bed one night and find your sheets filled with centipedes and mud. 

"The heck with laurel wreaths," Luke said. " not going  end up like those dusty trophies   
Big House attic." 

"You make  sound like 're leaving." 

Luke gave   twisted smile. "Oh,  leaving, all right, Percy.  brought  down here  say 
good-bye." 

He snapped his fingers. A small fire burned  hole   ground at my feet. Out crawled something 
glistening black, about  size of my hand. A scorpion. 

 started  go for my pen. 

" wouldn't," Luke cautioned. "Pit scorpions can jump up  fifteen feet. Its stinger can pierce right 



through your clothes. You'll be dead  sixty seconds." 
"Luke, what—" 
Then  hit . 

You will be betrayed by one who calls   friend. 
"You,"  said. 

He stood calmly and brushed off his jeans. 

The scorpion paid him no attention. It kept its beady black eyes  , clamping its pincers as  
crawled onto my shoe. 

" saw  lot out there   world, Percy," Luke said. "Didn't  feel  —  darkness gathering, 
 monsters growing stronger? Didn't  realize how useless  all ? All  heroics — being pawns 
of  gods. They should've been overthrown thousands of years ago, but 've hung , thanks  us 
half-bloods." 

 couldn't believe  was happening. 

"Luke . . . 're talking about our parents,"  said. 

He laughed. "That's supposed  make  love them? Their precious 'Western civilization'   
disease, Percy.  killing  world. The only way  stop    burn    ground, start over with 
something more honest." 

"You're as crazy as Ares." 

His eyes flared. "Ares   fool. He never realized  true master he was serving. If  had time, 
Percy,  could explain. But  afraid  won't live that long." 

The scorpion crawled onto my pants leg. 

There had  be  way out of .  needed time  think. 

"Kronos,"  said. "That's who  serve." 

The air got colder. 

"You should be careful with names," Luke warned. 

"Kronos got   steal  master bolt and  helm. He spoke    your dreams." 
Luke's eye twitched. "He spoke  , too, Percy. You should've listened." 
"He's brainwashing , Luke." 

"You're wrong. He showed  that my talents are being wasted. You know what my quest was two 
years ago, Percy? My father, Hermes, wanted   steal  golden apple from  Garden of  
Hesperides and return   Olympus. After all  training 'd done, that was  best he could think 
up." 

"That's not an easy quest,"  said. "Hercules did ." 

"Exactly," Luke said. "Where's  glory  repeating what others have done? All  gods know 
how  do  replay their past. My heart wasn't  . The dragon   garden gave  " — he 
pointed angrily at his scar — "and when  came back, all  got was pity.  wanted  pull Olympus down 
stone by stone right then, but  bided my time.  began  dream of Kronos. He convinced   steal 
something worthwhile, something no hero had ever had  courage  take. When we went  that 
winter-solstice field trip, while  other campers were asleep,  snuck into  throne room and took 
Zeus's master bolt right from his chair. Hades's helm of darkness, too. You wouldn't believe how easy  
was. The Olympians are so arrogant;  never dreamed someone would dare steal from them. Their 
security  horrible.  was halfway across New Jersey before  heard  storms rumbling, and  knew 
'd discovered my theft." 



The scorpion was sitting  my knee now, staring at  with its glittering eyes.  tried  keep my 
voice level. "So why didn't  bring  items  Kronos?" 

Luke's smile wavered. " ...  got overconfident. Zeus sent out his sons and daughters  find  
stolen bolt — Artemis, Apollo, my father, Hermes. But  was Ares who caught .  could have beaten 
him, but  wasn't careful enough. He disarmed , took  items of power, threatened  return them  
Olympus and burn  alive. Then Kronos 's voice came   and told  what  say.  put  idea  
Ares's head about  great war between  gods.  said all he had  do was hide  items away for  
while and watch  others fight. Ares got  wicked gleam  his eyes.  knew he was hooked. He let  
go, and  returned  Olympus before anyone noticed my absence." Luke drew his new sword. He ran 
his thumb down  flat of  blade, as if he were hypnotized by its beauty. "Afterward,  Lord of  
Titans . . . h-he punished  with nightmares.  swore not  fail again. Back at Camp Half-Blood,  
my dreams,  was told that  second hero would arrive, one who could be tricked into taking  bolt 
and  helm  rest of  way — from Ares down  Tartarus." 

"You summoned  hellhound, that night   forest." 

"We had  make Chiron think  camp wasn't safe for , so he would start   your quest. 
We had  confirm his fears that Hades was after . And  worked." 

"The flying shoes were cursed,"  said. "They were supposed  drag  and  backpack into 
Tartarus." 

"And  would have, if 'd been wearing them. But  gave them   satyr, which wasn't 
part of  plan. Grover messes up everything he touches. He even confused  curse." 

Luke looked down at  scorpion, which was now sitting  my thigh. "You should have died  
Tartarus, Percy. But don't worry, 'll leave  with my little friend  set things right." 

"Thalia gave her life  save ,"  said, gritting my teeth. "And   how  repay her?" 

"Don't speak of Thalia!" he shouted. "The gods let her die! That's one of  many things  will 
pay for." 

"You're being used, Luke. You and Ares both. Don't listen  Kronos." 

"'ve been used?" Luke's voice turned shrill. "Look at yourself. What has your dad ever done for 
? Kronos will rise. You've only delayed his plans. He will cast  Olympians into Tartarus and 
drive humanity back  their caves. All except  strongest —  ones who serve him." 

"Call off  bug,"  said. "If 're so strong, fight  yourself." 

Luke smiled. "Nice try, Percy. But  not Ares. You can't bait . My lord  waiting, and he's got 
plenty of quests for   undertake." 

"Luke—" 

"Good-bye, Percy. There   new Golden Age coming. You won't be part of ." 
He slashed his sword  an arc and disappeared   ripple of darkness. 
The scorpion lunged. 

 swatted  away with my hand and uncapped my sword. The thing jumped at  and  cut   half 
 midair. 

 was about  congratulate myself until  looked down at my hand. My palm had  huge red welt, 
oozing and smoking with yellow guck. The thing had gotten  after all. 

My ears pounded. My vision went foggy. The water,  thought. It healed  before. 

 stumbled   creek and submerged my hand, but nothing seemed  happen. The poison was too 
strong. My vision was getting dark.  could barely stand up. 



Sixty seconds, Luke had told . 

 had  get back  camp. If  collapsed out here, my body would be dinner for  monster. Nobody 
would ever know what had happened. 

My legs felt like lead. My forehead was burning.  stumbled toward  camp, and  nymphs 
stirred from their trees. 

"Help,"  croaked. "Please . . ." 

Two of them took my arms, pulling  along.  remember making    clearing,  counselor 
shouting for help,  centaur blowing  conch horn. 

Then everything went black. 

* * * 

 woke with  drinking straw  my mouth.  was sipping something that tasted like liquid chocolate- 
chip cookies. Nectar. 

 opened my eyes. 

 was propped up  bed   sickroom of  Big House, my right hand bandaged like  club. 
Argus stood guard   corner. Annabeth sat next  , holding my nectar glass and dabbing  
washcloth  my forehead. 

"Here we are again,"  said. 

"You idiot," Annabeth said, which  how  knew she was overjoyed  see  conscious. "You were 
green and turning gray when we found . If  weren't for Chiron's healing . . ." 

"Now, now," Chiron's voice said. "Percy's constitution deserves some of  credit." 

He was sitting near  foot of my bed  human form, which was why  hadn't noticed him yet. His 
lower half was magically compacted into  wheelchair, his upper half dressed   coat and tie. He 
smiled, but his face looked weary and pale,  way  did when he'd been up all night grading Latin 
papers. 

"How are  feeling?" he asked. 

"Like my insides have been frozen, then microwaved." 

"Apt, considering that was pit scorpion venom. Now  must tell , if  can, exactly what 
happened." 

Between sips of nectar,  told them  story. 

The room was quiet for  long time. 

" can't believe that Luke . . ." Annabeth's voice faltered. Her expression turned angry and sad. 
"Yes. Yes,  can believe . May  gods curse him. ... He was never  same after his quest." 

"This must be reported  Olympus," Chiron murmured. " will go at once." 

"Luke  out there right now,"  said. " have  go after him." 

Chiron shook his head. "No, Percy. The gods — " 

"Won't even talk about Kronos,"  snapped. "Zeus declared  matter closed!" 

"Percy,  know   hard. But  must not rush out for vengeance. You aren't ready." 

 didn't like , but part of  suspected Chiron was right. One look at my hand, and  knew  wasn't 
going  be sword fighting any time soon. "Chiron . . . your prophecy from  Oracle ...  was about 
Kronos, wasn't ? Was   ? And Annabeth?" 

Chiron glanced nervously at  ceiling. "Percy,  isn't my place — " 
"You've been ordered not  talk   about , haven't ?" 



His eyes were sympathetic, but sad. "You will be  great hero, child.  will do my best  prepare 
. But if  right about  path ahead of  . . ." 

Thunder boomed overhead, rattling  windows. 

"All right!" Chiron shouted. "Fine!" 

He sighed  frustration. "The gods have their reasons, Percy. Knowing too much of your future  
never  good thing." 

"We can't just sit back and do nothing,"  said. 

"We will not sit back," Chiron promised. "But  must be careful. Kronos wants   come 
unraveled. He wants your life disrupted, your thoughts clouded with fear and anger. Do not give him 
what he wants. Train patiently. Your time will come." 

"Assuming  live that long." 

Chiron put his hand  my ankle. "You'll have  trust , Percy. You will live. But first  must 
decide your path for  coming year.  cannot tell   right choice. ..."  got  feeling that he had 
 very definite opinion, and  was taking all his willpower not  advise . "But  must decide 
whether  stay at Camp Half-Blood year-round, or return   mortal world for seventh grade and be 
 summer camper. Think  that. When  get back from Olympus,  must tell  your decision." 

 wanted  protest.  wanted  ask him more questions. But his expression told  there could be 
no more discussion; he had said as much as he could. 

"'ll be back as soon as  can," Chiron promised. "Argus will watch over ." 
He glanced at Annabeth. "Oh, and, my dear . . . whenever 're ready,  here." 
"Who's here?"  asked. 
Nobody answered. 

Chiron rolled himself out of  room.  heard  wheels of his chair clunk carefully down  front 
steps, two at  time. 

Annabeth studied  ice  my drink. 

"What's wrong?"  asked her. 

"Nothing." She set  glass   table. " . . . just took your advice about something. You . . . um . 
. . need anything?" 

"Yeah. Help  up.  want  go outside." 

"Percy, that isn't  good idea." 

 slid my legs out of bed. Annabeth caught  before  could crumple   floor. A wave of nausea 
rolled over . 

Annabeth said, " told  . . ." 

" fine,"  insisted.  didn't want  lie  bed like an invalid while Luke was out there planning  
destroy  Western world. 

 managed  step forward. Then another, still leaning heavily  Annabeth. Argus followed us 
outside, but he kept his distance. 

By  time we reached  porch, my face was beaded with sweat. My stomach had twisted into 
knots. But  had managed  make  all  way   railing. 

It was dusk. The camp looked completely deserted. The cabins were dark and  volleyball pit 
silent. No canoes cut  surface of  lake. Beyond  woods and  strawberry fields,  Long 
Island Sound glittered   last light of  sun. 

"What are  going  do?" Annabeth asked . 



" don't know." 

 told her  got  feeling Chiron wanted   stay year-round,  put  more individual training 
time, but  wasn't sure that's what  wanted.  admitted 'd feel bad about leaving her alone, though, 
with only Clarisse for company. . . . 

Annabeth pursed her lips, then said quietly, " going home for  year, Percy." 
 stared at her. "You mean,  your dad's?" 

She pointed toward  crest of Half-Blood Hill. Next  Thalia's pine tree, at  very edge of  
camp's magical boundaries,  family stood silhouetted — two little children,  woman, and  tall man 
with blond hair. They seemed  be waiting. The man was holding  backpack that looked like  one 
Annabeth had gotten from Waterland  Denver. 

" wrote him  letter when we got back," Annabeth said. "Just like  suggested.  told him ...  
was sorry. 'd come home for  school year if he still wanted . He wrote back immediately. We 
decided ... we'd give  another try." 

"That took guts." 

She pursed her lips. "You won't try anything stupid during  school year, will ? At least ... not 
without sending  an Iris-message?" 

 managed  smile. " won't go looking for trouble.  usually don't have ." 

"When  get back next summer," she said, "we'll hunt down Luke. We'll ask for  quest, but if we 
don't get approval, we'll sneak off and do  anyway. Agreed?" 

"Sounds like  plan worthy of Athena." 
She held out her hand.  shook . 

"Take care, Seaweed Brain," Annabeth told . "Keep your eyes open." 
"You too, Wise Girl." 

 watched her walk up  hill and join her family. She gave her father an awkward hug and looked 
back at  valley one last time. She touched Thalia's pine tree, then allowed herself  be lead over  
crest and into  mortal world. 

For  first time at camp,  felt truly alone.  looked out at Long Island Sound and  remembered 
my father saying, The sea does not like  be restrained. 

 made my decision. 

 wondered, if Poseidon were watching, would he approve of my choice? 

"'ll be back next summer,"  promised him. "'ll survive until then. After all,   your son."  
asked Argus  take  down  cabin three, so  could pack my bags for home. 



